Title: Teachy Mini: Development and Preliminary Evaluation of a Knowledge-Based Generative Social Robot for Higher Education

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.22345v1

Published Time: Mon, 27 Jul 2026 00:49:49 GMT

Number of Pages: 27

Markdown Content:
# Teachy Mini: Development and Preliminary Evaluation of a Knowledge-Based Generative Social Robot for Higher Education 

Stephan Vonschallen 1,2 Karim Kaufmann 1 Dominique Oberle 1

Friederike Eyssel 2∗ Theresa Schmiedel 1∗

> 1

Institute of Information Systems, Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Switzerland 

> 2

Center for Cognitive Interaction Technology, Bielefeld University, Germany 

> ∗

Friederike Eyssel and Theresa Schmiedel share senior authorship 

Corresponding author: Stephan Vonschallen ( stephan.vonschallen@zhaw.ch )

Abstract 

Generative social robots (GSRs) powered by large language models offer new possibilities for personalized tutoring in higher education, but also introduce risks related to misinformation, missing transparency, or reinforcing incorrect student responses. Prior work identified knowledge-based design (KBD) requirements that define the informational prerequisites for GSRs to manifest responsible and effective tutoring behavior in higher education. In this paper, we operationalized selected KBD requirements in the Reachy Mini robot platform through system prompting, retrieval-augmented generation, and stateful prompt orchestration. As a result, we present Teachy Mini, a GSR tutoring system that was developed using KBD. To test the system, we conducted a preliminary evaluation study. Participants (N = 24) completed a robot-guided learning session about research methodologies. They learned either with Teachy Mini or with a control version that did not follow KBD principles. Teachy Mini was perceived as significantly more aligned with responsible tutoring behavior than the control robot. Moreover, a manipulation check illustrated that Teachy Mini used personalization, slide-grounded explanations, Socratic questioning, affective support, and learner-anchored feedback more consistently than the control robot. No significant between-condition differences were found in system acceptance, intrinsic motivation, or learning effectiveness, although exploratory analyses suggested a positive effect of KBD on objective learning gains when accounting for learner preferences. Furthermore, an exploratory path model suggested that the robot’s perceived responsible behavior may be associated with motivation, acceptance, and subjective learning effectiveness. Overall, the study offered an initial implementation and preliminary evaluation of KBD for GSR tutoring, indicating that KBD can shape responsible robot behavior and potentially increase learning effectiveness in robot-supported learning. 

# 1 Introduction 

Teachers and students in higher education increasingly rely on technology-supported learning to address the challenges of large class sizes and increasing demands for self-directed study [ 50 , 67 , 76 ]. While study groups and personal tutoring can support this process through explanation, feedback, and social motivation [ 38 , 61 , 78 ], their availability is often limited by time, access, and institutional resources. Social robots offer a promising complementary approach, as they can provide interactive learning support, foster engagement, and create a sense of social presence [ 8, 46 , 72 ]. However, effective tutoring requires more than the delivery of factual information: It also depends on nuanced 1arXiv:2607.22345v1 [cs.RO] 24 Jul 2026 social understanding, adaptive communication, pedagogically appropriate feedback, and sensitivity to learner motivation [60, 67]. With the integration of large language models (LLMs) into social robots, natural, human-like communication between social robots and human users has become possible. LLM-driven generative social robots [ 69 ] are capable of open-ended, context-sensitive dialogue [ 10 , 33 ], enabling them to respond flexibly to learner questions, provide personalized explanations, and sustain flexible tutoring conversations in real time [ 17 ]. This represents a substantial departure from earlier generations of tutoring robots, whose limited dialogic flexibility constrained their educational utility [8]. At the same time, the use of GSRs in education introduces substantial risks: LLM-based systems generate responses probabilistically [ 9]. Hence, they may produce inaccurate or misleading explanations [ 14 , 16 ], confirm incorrect statements made by learners because of sycophantic behavior [14 , 15 , 58 ], decrease critical thinking [ 5, 77 ], or even discriminate against students [ 31 ]. Further concerns include overreliance on AI-based tutoring [ 30 , 77 ] and privacy risks associated with the processing of student data [ 7 , 60 , 71 ]. These concerns are amplified in higher education, where students may interact with such systems under evaluative pressure and may rely on them when preparing for examinations or completing learning tasks. The coexistence of these risks and opportunities highlights the need to investigate how the responsible deployment of GSRs in higher education can be facilitated.Within the scope of this work, responsible behavior refers to actions that align with the needs of students and teachers while also upholding broader social norms and ethical standards.To support responsible GSRs in higher education, we previously identified Knowledge-Based Design (KBD) requirements for tutoring-oriented GSRs used by university students for learning lecture content [ 67 ]. However, these KBD requirements have not yet been implemented and empirically tested in an educational context. Consequently, it remains unclear whether these KBD requirements can be translated into a tutoring GSR and whether such an implementation has a positive impact on learners. The present research addresses this gap by developing and testing a GSR tutoring prototype that operationalizes KBD requirements on a social robot platform. Specifically, we developed Teachy Mini, a robot tutoring system designed for single-session interactions with students. We then compared Teachy Mini with a robot tutor that did not follow KBD guidelines, but had the same hardware, conversational capabilities, and language model. Thereby, we examined whether and how KBD can be integrated into a GSR tutor and whether the integrated design features can shape students’ perceptions of the robot and learning experiences. 

# 2 Related Work 

Social robots have been studied as tutors, peer learners, and learning companions in educational settings [ 8 , 74 ]. Existing review articles suggest that their physical embodiment and social cues in particular support engagement, motivation, and learning. However, effects vary substantially across tasks, age groups, and study designs [ 3, 43 , 72 ]. Most works study children in school contexts, while research in higher education remains comparatively underrepresented [ 8 ]. In one of the few university-level studies, Donnermann et al. [ 21 ] evaluated an adaptive tutoring robot for exam preparation and found that robot-supported tutoring was feasible and positively perceived, but that adaptivity did not clearly outperform a non-adaptive configuration. This suggests that social robots may support self-directed learning in higher education, but that their added value depends less on embodiment alone than on the quality and configuration of their tutoring behavior. Recent work in human-robot interaction has advanced beyond using scripted or Wizard-of-Oz-controlled systems toward AI-based and LLM-driven tutoring robots. LLMs can enable more 2flexible dialogue, adaptive explanations, and open-ended interaction than prior rule-based systems, making them attractive for tutoring scenarios that require responsiveness to learner questions [ 32 ]. Hence, GSRs are increasingly used in educational settings for personalized feedback and adaptive content generation [ 1 , 7 , 35 ]. To illustrate, Smit et al. [ 54 ] evaluated a GSR in an educational setting and found that LLM integration improved interaction quality and user satisfaction compared to scripted alternatives. Similarly, Elgarf et al. [ 24 ] explored how LLM-driven social robots may support collaborative learning interactions, showing that generative AI enables robots to adapt dynamically to individual learner input in ways that pre-programmed systems cannot. However, empirical studies that investigate interactions with GSR tutors and learners remain scarce, and evidence based on empirical research in higher education is particularly limited. Such lack of evidence is problematic because tutoring GSRs raise design questions that go beyond usability or mere learning performance. Responsible educational tutoring requires factual accuracy, transparency, privacy protection, learner autonomy, pedagogical appropriateness, and sensitivity to students’ motivational and emotional states [ 29 , 32 , 67 ]. These requirements are difficult to ensure in GSRs because their responses are generated probabilistically and may include hallucinations, unsupported claims, overconfident explanations, or socially inappropriate guidance [ 32 , 33 , 70 ]. Existing design frameworks, such as AI for Social Good or Value Sensitive Design [25 , 63 ], provide important principles for ethical AI use, but they do not specify what specific knowledge a GSR must possess to express these ethical principles through its behavior. This leaves a gap between abstract responsible-AI principles and the concrete system configuration required for responsible tutoring. To address this gap, Vonschallen et al. [67 ] conducted a qualitative interview study with university students and lecturers to identify desired behaviors and KBD requirements for effective and responsible tutoring-oriented GSRs in higher education. The study was based on the assumption that responsible robot behavior depends on the availability of self-, user-, and context-knowledge .Regarding expected robot behavior, a tutoring robot in higher education should have pedagogical skills to motivate and teach students effectively. The robot should also give personalized support that is tailored to learners’ backgrounds and learning preferences. Moreover, it was deemed important that the robot would give correct information that is aligned with the content to be studied. The results suggested that a robot should teach students in a transparent way and mention the sources of the transmitted information. According to these desired behaviors, KBD requirements further specified the type of information necessary for the GSR to realize optimal responses [ 67 ]. Regarding 

self-knowledge, the robot’s role should be adaptive, with the default being a study buddy that is friendly, motivating, and conscientious. To enable personalization, the robot’s user-knowledge should encompass learner-specific information such as learning goals, learning progress, motivation type, emotional state, academic background, and preferred learning style, while respecting privacy and informed consent. For context-sensitive educational support, the robot should have context-knowledge 

about official learning materials, course-related information, educational strategies, and, where appropriate, the physical learning environment. Figure 1 summarizes these KBD requirements. 

# 3 Prototype Development and Knowledge Integration 

Building on the research of Vonschallen et al. [67 ], the present work integrates selected KBD requirements in a GSR tutor prototype, which we called Teachy Mini. Our goal was to evaluate whether Teachy Mini would lead to more responsible and effective tutoring interactions compared to a robot that was not designed with KBD. Hence, Teachy Mini was not intended as a fully deployable educational system, but as an experimental implementation that makes it possible to examine how KBD shapes tutoring behavior during a single learning interaction. The prototype was implemented 3Figure 1: Knowledge-based Design Requirements identified by Vonschallen et al. [67] on the open-source Reachy Mini platform (Pollen Robotics 1), a small desktop social robot that is suitable for individual learning interactions. It supported spoken dialogue and provided simple embodied social cues through head and antenna movements. For Teachy Mini’s communication system, we used an adaptation of the Reachy Mini Conversation App 2. This application supported real-time spoken conversation using the OpenAI Realtime API (gpt-realtime-1), as well as adaptive motion. These two features were important for enabling natural, real-time human–robot interaction [ 57 ]. We modified several of the application’s functions to increase the quality of the interaction. This included recovery from incomplete model responses, setting higher interruption thresholds, and removing potentially distracting non-verbal idle movements during pauses. We then used three main methods to provide the robot with the required knowledge: Dynamic system prompting [4 ], retrieval-augmented generation [ 34 ], and stateful prompt orchestration [ 73 ]. 

System prompting gives the system instructions about its overarching behavior and role. Dynamic system prompting uses a combination of stable instructions and dynamic elements that can change within an interaction to allow for personalization. RAG is used to retrieve relevant information from an external knowledge source and make it available to the LLM when generating a response. This allows the model’s outputs to be grounded in task-specific material rather than relying only on its general training data. Lastly, stateful prompt orchestration dynamically updates or supplements the model instructions during the interaction based on different dialogue states, i.e., interactional situations that require a more precise, pre-defined response from the robot. For example, if a verbal pattern related to confusion, such as “I don’t understand this” , is detected during a conversation, a state-specific instruction is added to the user input: “Rephrase your final thought in simple words using different vocabulary and a concrete analogy. Do NOT repeat the same words.” This was used to increase the robustness of the robot’s communication at critical moments in a conversation. Figure 2 gives an overview of the system’s architecture, with a focus on prompt orchestration. More specifically, in the dynamic system prompt, the model was given static instructions with dynamic variable placeholders, the values of which were derived from a learner profile. This learner profile was created at the beginning of the interaction through an onboarding conversation with the robot. In parallel, RAG was used to provide the model with lecture content. After receiving a 

> 1https://huggingface.co/spaces/pollen-robotics/Reachy_Mini
> 2https://github.com/pollen-robotics/reachy_mini_conversation_app

4response from a human user, regular expressions – that is, rule-based text-matching patterns – were used to detect the relevant conversational state. In particular, the user’s response was checked for predefined verbal patterns indicating states such as frustration, uncertainty, confusion, requests for content explanations, requests for more depth, or requests that the robot stop asking questions. If such a pattern was detected, the system injected a short state-specific instruction into the next user prompt, for example instructing the robot to acknowledge frustration, simplify an explanation, or provide a more direct explanation. Depending on the state, these prompts were sometimes dynamic, that is, they used placeholders whose values were drawn from variables in the learner profile. For example, the robot could remind students of their personal goals when they expressed frustration. A list of all states and prompts is available on researchbox.org (ID: #8129). Based on this architecture, we integrated the KBD requirements into the robot system. The implementation code is available on GitHub GitHub 3.

Figure 2: Overview of Prompt Orchestration Overall, we integrated a selection of the previously identified self-knowledge , user-knowledge , and 

context-knowledge design requirements [ 67 ] into Teachy Mini’s interaction design. As Teachy Mini was designed for application in an experimental single-session context, the design requirement “ course information” , which is necessary for interactions over longer periods of time, was not integrated. Similarly, the design requirement “ learning progress” was only partly accounted for by integrating learner goals, but not actual progress over multiple interactions. Moreover, although several role profiles were developed, the preliminary evaluation used only the “study buddy” profile, which was widely preferred by students and lecturers [ 67 ], to keep the interaction role consistent across participants. Similarly, we did not integrate the optional design requirement “ physical learning environment” as this may have introduced additional variability in experimental settings, and because this design requirement only received mixed support in the identification study due to privacy concerns about being filmed and limited perceived usefulness [67]. 

> 3https://github.com/StephanVonschallen/Teachy-Mini

5User-knowledge was integrated to personalize Teachy Mini’s behavior to user preferences and needs. Most learner-related information was acquired through a short onboarding interaction with the robot. In this onboarding interaction, Teachy Mini was instructed to ask seven opening questions to acquire relevant user information regarding the design requirements “ biographical information” ,“learning type” , and “ learning progress” (Table 1). The acquired user information from these opening questions was extracted using rule-based regex parsing and stored in a user profile that was added to the system prompt. The design requirement “emotional state” was integrated through state detection. Specifically, the robot received information through prompt injection indicating whether the user appeared frustrated, uncertain, or confused. Table 1: Opening Questions 

Question Content Design Requirement 

Q1 What is your name? How would you like me to address you? Biographical Information Q2 What are you studying, and which semester are you in? Biographical Information Q3 What motivates you when learning? What drives you? Learning Type Q4 How do you prefer to learn: in a structured way with clear steps, or through a more exploratory approach? Learning Type Q5 What do you enjoy doing in your free time? What are your hobbies or interests? Biographical Information Q6 What kind of learning atmosphere do you prefer: strictly factual, or one that also includes some humor? Role Q7 What would you like to achieve in today’s session? Do you have a specific learning goal? Learning Progress 

Context-knowledge was integrated to ensure that Teachy Mini’s behavior was sensitive to the educational context. To fulfill the KBD requirement “learning materials” , we implemented an upload mechanism for PDF documents, where users could upload lecture slides by drag and drop. The system could access these PDFs using RAG, providing it with context-sensitive topic knowledge. This implementation is similar to functions offered by chat interfaces of popular generative AI systems such as ChatGPT and Gemini, but these functions are less commonly used for HRI implementations such as the baseline Reachy Mini Conversation App . To apply “educational strategies”, we used dynamic system prompting and stateful prompt orchestration. The robot was instructed to use scaffolding strategies, including Socratic questioning (i.e., questions that guide learners to examine their reasoning and think for themselves), targeted hints, simplified explanations, and corrective feedback. Concretely, the system prompt included instructions to ask an in-depth question after each concept was explained to check the students’ level of understanding. These questions were content-sensitive, e.g., “Which point differentiates concepts A and concept B the most?", or “Which two properties did we just discuss?“. Further, when a student’s answer was correct or partially on track, the robot should give one specific sentence of acknowledgement that names what the student understood, avoid generic confirmations, and vary its wording across turns. When a student gave an incorrect answer, the robot was tasked to avoid direct rejection, briefly acknowledge the reasoning attempt, identify what is partially correct or where the reasoning diverges, ask one targeted guiding 6question, and only provide a small hint after a second failed attempt. However, if the user wanted to engage in a different learning approach that did not include follow-up questions, the robot was instructed via system prompt to follow the user’s suggested approach. Additionally, stateful prompt orchestration was applied to ensure an adaptive use of the educational strategies. To illustrate, when the student explicitly asked for more depth, prompt injection was used to temporarily stop the robot from Socratic questioning. Instead, the robot was instructed to provide a detailed explanation with concrete terminology, add a specific example, and then ask one comprehension-check question before returning to interactive questioning. When the student explicitly asked the robot to stop asking questions or to simply explain or summarize the content, the robot’s system prompt was updated to suspend Socratic questioning, provide direct explanations without follow-up questions for the next few turns, and then return to its default interactive tutoring style unless the student repeated the request. Lastly, if the user was detected to be confused about an explanation, the robot was instructed to restate its previous point in simpler language, use different wording and a concrete analogy, and avoid repeating the same explanation. 

Self-knowledge was integrated by defining Teachy Mini’s role, interaction style, didactic stance, and behavioral boundaries. The design requirement “friendliness” was implemented directly through 

system prompting , instructing the robot to communicate in a warm, friendly, encouraging, and supportive tone. Furthermore, if the state detection mechanism identified signs of user frustration, Teachy Mini was prompted to react in an appreciative manner, reminding the user of their stated goal and motivation derived from the user profile (Table 1, Q7). “ Conscientiousness” was integrated through system prompts that required the robot to communicate carefully, transparently, and truthfully. Teachy Mini was instructed not to invent facts, sources, studies, or citations, to explicitly acknowledge uncertainty when information was unclear, and to distinguish between slide-grounded information and general model knowledge. When referring to course material, the robot was required to use the retrieval tool and cite the relevant slide rather than claiming unsupported slide content. “Conscientiousness” was also reflected in identity and safety rules: The robot had to identify itself as an AI-powered Reachy Mini rather than pretending to be human, state when no camera was available, and refer students to appropriate counseling services in cases of severe personal distress. The design requirement “assertiveness” was operationalized in combination with 

“educational strategies” (context-knowledge) . The robot was instructed to guide the interaction through scaffolding and concept-specific follow-up questions rather than waiting passively for user requests. At the same time, this initiative was constrained by pacing and autonomy rules: When user states were detected that indicated time pressure, beginner status, frustration, or a preferred learning approach, the robot was instructed to reduce questioning, provide more direct support, or follow the student’s chosen procedure. Lastly, the design requirement “study buddy” was integrated through system prompting. Techy Mini was assigned a peer-level tutoring role and explicitly distinguished from an authoritative teacher or examiner. This role positioned the robot as a learning companion that supports students in working through the material while leaving responsibility and control with the learner. To account for the broader requirement of role adaptability, we also created alternative role profiles in which the robot could assume more assertive roles, such as a coach or professor. 

# 4 Preliminary Evaluation 

Teachy Mini was evaluated in an interaction study to examine whether integrating KBD requirements changed how students experienced and interacted with a GSR tutor. Accordingly, the study compared a KBD version of the robot with a control version that did not follow KBD guidelines, but operated on the same platform and with the same LLM. The study was approved by the ethics committee of 7Bielefeld University (ID: EUB-2025-369) and preregistered on aspredicted.org (ID: 287,000). Four hypotheses were derived from prior work on educational social robots, AI-based tutoring, and KBD. First, educational technology acceptance research suggests that learners are more likely to accept a system when it is perceived as useful, easy to interact with, and appropriate for the learning task [ 19 , 28 ]. Because KBD provides the robot with a consistent tutoring role, access to learner-related information, and course-specific content, we expected Teachy Mini to be perceived as more acceptable than the control robot: 

H1: Students interacting with Teachy Mini will report greater system acceptance than students interacting with the control robot. 

Second, prior research on social robots and AI-based learning systems suggests that personaliza-tion, adaptive feedback, and socially engaging interaction can support learner motivation [ 8 , 21 , 32 ]. Since Teachy Mini was designed to use learner-specific information, provide motivating feedback, and adapt its tutoring behavior to the student’s needs, we expected it to increase students’ intrinsic learning motivation. 

H2: Students interacting with Teachy Mini will report greater intrinsic learning motivation than students interacting with the control robot. 

Third, intelligent tutoring and robot-assisted learning research suggests that learning can benefit when support is aligned with the learner’s current understanding and grounded in the relevant instructional material [ 6, 37 , 59 ]. Teachy Mini was designed to support learning through slide-grounded explanations, scaffolding, and adaptive questioning. We therefore expected it to support learning more effectively than the control robot. 

H3: Students interacting with Teachy Mini will demonstrate greater objective (H3a) and subjective (H3b) learning effectiveness than students interacting with the control robot. 

Finally, the central assumption of the KBD framework is that responsible tutoring behavior depends on the knowledge available to the robot. A robot that knows its role and boundaries, can use relevant learner information, and is grounded in the educational context should be better able to behave in ways that are transparent, pedagogically appropriate, and responsive to student needs [67 ]. We therefore expected students to perceive Teachy Mini as more aligned with responsible robot tutoring behavior. 

H4: Students interacting with Teachy Mini will perceive its behavior as more closely aligned with responsible robot tutoring than students interacting with the control robot. 

4.1 Sample 

Participants were recruited through convenience sampling. This sampling strategy was considered appropriate because the study was exploratory and aimed to provide preliminary evidence. Partici-pants were required to be currently enrolled at a university or to have completed a university degree within the previous four years. Participants also had to be familiar with lecture-based learning formats and sufficiently proficient in German to complete the spoken interaction with the robot, as all instructions, questionnaires, and robot interactions were conducted in German. Individuals who were in a current student–teacher relationship with a member of the research team were excluded. The final sample consisted of 24 participants. Data were collected between March and April 2026. Participants had a mean age of 31 years ( SD = 4.31), ranging from 23 to 36 years. Sixteen participants identified as male (66.7%) and eight as female (33.3%). Half of the participants were currently enrolled students, whereas the other half were not currently enrolled but had completed their degree within the previous four years. The most common field of study was information systems ( n = 14), with other subjects being law ( n = 2), engineering ( n = 3), social sciences ( n =2), design ( n = 2), and architecture ( n = 1). Accordingly, the level of education in the sample was 8relatively high, with four participants who had completed secondary education, 13 participants with a bachelor’s degree, and seven participants with a master’s degree. Only one of the 24 participants had previously interacted with a social robot. 

4.2 Design 

The study applied a two-group between-subjects design. Accordingly, participants interacted with one of two versions of the same Reachy Mini tutoring prototype: A KBD condition and a control condition. In the KBD condition, the Teachy Mini robot was used. This robot was configured with the implemented KBD requirements, including structured self-knowledge , user-knowledge , and 

context-knowledge . It used the study-buddy role profile, personalized the interaction based on onboarding information, applied scaffolding and Socratic questioning, and had access to the lecture slides through retrieval-augmented generation. In the control condition, participants interacted with the same Reachy Mini robot platform that had identical communication capabilities and used the same OpenAI Realtime language model. However, the control robot did not have the structured KBD configuration. The robot used a neutral and factual interaction style, did not personalize tutoring based on the opening questions, did not use the study-buddy role framing or KBD-specific scaffolding rules, and did not access the lecture slides through the retrieval mechanism. Participants were randomly assigned to either the KBD ( n = 12) or control ( n = 12) conditions using equal-allocation randomization. 

4.3 Materials 

The materials for the current study included learning materials, a knowledge test, and several scale measures. All study materials are available on researchbox.org (ID: #8129). The learning materials consisted of 11 lecture slides on research methodologies for Information Systems Research . This topic was selected because it falls within the teaching expertise of one member of the research team, which allowed this researcher to assess whether the agent provided pedagogically and factually accurate information. The slides introduced core concepts of the topic, including definitions, distinctions between research types, theory types, behavioral science and design science, quantitative and qualitative methods, and research design decisions. The same slide set was used in both conditions. During the tutoring session, participants received the slides as printed A4 handouts. In the KBD condition (Teachy Mini), the slide content was available to the robot through retrieval-augmented generation, allowing the robot to ground its explanations in the provided learning materials. To assess students objective learning effectiveness (Hypothesis H3a), we developed a 12-item multiple-choice knowledge test on Information Systems Research (Table 2). The knowledge test was designed for pre-post test comparison. The items were constructed following the revised Bloom taxonomy [ 2 ], with a balanced distribution of items across the cognitive process dimensions recall ,

comprehension , and transfer . Recall refers to retrieving specific information that was learned, 

comprehension to understanding and explaining concepts, and transfer to applying knowledge to new situations. Each item was presented as a single-choice question with four answer options. 9Table 2: Self-developed Knowledge Test 

Item Description Type p

Q1 * What is Information Systems Research primarily concerned with? Recall 87.5% Q2 * Which statement correctly describes basic research? Recall 95.8% Q3 What is the primary goal of Behavioral Science? Recall 45.8% Q4 * Which characteristics define qualitative research? Recall 83.3% Q5 A researcher develops a robot prototype and evaluates its usefulness for care facilities. Which paradigm does this work belong to? Transfer 58.3% Q6 A team first conducts focus groups and then uses the findings to design a quantitative survey. What is this approach called? Comprehension 75.0% Q7 Why is Information Systems Research described as interdisciplinary? Comprehension 79.2% Q8 * What should the research design primarily be based on? Comprehension 91.7% Q9 A study uses a questionnaire to compare whether a new robot prototype is better accepted than an existing system. In which quadrant of the methodological spectrum does this study fall? Transfer 12.5% Q10 * One research team investigates fundamental patterns in communication between people and IT systems without developing specific recommendations for improvement. A second team uses these findings to improve a chatbot for care homes. How should these two projects be classified? Transfer 83.3% Q11 A study investigates how students use a learning app in everyday life and what problems arise. Which characteristic of Information Systems Research is illustrated here? Transfer 54.2% Q12 A researcher wants to understand why employees reject a new system. Which method is most suitable? Comprehension 75.0% 

Note. Items were translated from German. p = item difficulty index, calculated as the number of correct responses divided by the total number of responses. Higher values indicate lower difficulty. *Items Q1, Q2, Q4, Q8, and Q10 were later removed; see Section 4.6. 

Several scale measures were used to assess all other outcome variables. System acceptance as measured using the Technology Acceptance Model scale [ 19 ], covering perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and intention to use. Intrinsic learner motivation was measured with the Interest/Enjoyment subscale of the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory [ 52 ]. Subjective learning effectiveness was assessed through the Perceived Competence subscale of the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory [ 52 ]. To assess whether participants perceived the robot’s behavior as aligned with the previously identified KBD requirements, we further developed a Responsible Behavior scale. The scale was derived from the identified KBD requirements by Vonschallen et al. [ 67 ] and captured whether the robot was perceived as context-sensitive, motivating, personalized, transparent, friendly, non-intrusive, competent, and trustworthy (Table 3). Items were answered on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (“I do not agree at all”) to 7 (“I fully agree”). Negatively worded items were reverse-coded where applicable. 10 Table 3: Self-developed Perceived Responsible Behavior Scale 

Item Description r λ

E3_1 The robot was competent. .647 .728 E3_2 The robot was trustworthy. .666 .638 E3_3 The robot was friendly. .680 .799 E3_4 *† The robot was intrusive. .232 .196 E3_5 The robot tried to motivate me to learn. .601 .651 E3_6 The robot was able to offer me support that was tailored to me. .799 .836 E3_7 The robot took my personal background into account. .741 .798 E3_8 * The robot spread false information. .549 .566 E3_9 The robot stated where the information it conveyed came from. .666 .626 E3_10 The robot’s information was specifically tailored to the distributed lecture slides. 

.608 .619       

> Note. Items were translated from German; r= corrected item–total correlation; λ= factor loading; * Items E3_4 and E3_8 were reverse-coded. †Item E3_4 was later removed; see Section 4.6

Apart from the dependent variables, several potential confounders were measured, including gender ( “male” , “female” , “diverse” ), age (in years), level of education ( “primary” , “secondary” ,

“bachelor” , “master” , “promotion” ), previous interactions with social robots ( “yes” / “no” ), preference for learning in groups versus alone (with a self-developed 6-item scale with items such as “I prefer learning alone” , “I prefer learning with others”, “I’m more efficient when learning alone” ), perceived baseline competence [ 52 ], general learning motivation [ 42 ], and general attitudes towards social robots [56]. 

4.4 Procedure 

Figure 3 gives an overview of the study procedure and setup. Each session was conducted individually with one participant. After arrival, participants received a brief introduction by a study supervisor and were informed that the aim was to evaluate a robot tutoring system for university learning. After providing written informed consent, participants completed a pre-questionnaire assessing demographic information, prior experience with social robots, attitudes toward robots, baseline motivation, perceived competence regarding research methods, and learning preferences. They then completed the 12-item knowledge pretest on Information Systems Research with a time limit of 12 minutes. Participants were then randomly assigned to one of the two experimental conditions and took part in a 30-minute tutoring interaction with the Reachy Mini platform. During the session, the robot was positioned next to a laptop displaying a live transcript of the interaction (Figure 3). Participants also received the printed lecture slides, which were placed face down before the tutoring session and turned over only when the interaction began. The participants were instructed to use the session to learn and understand the slide contents with the robot’s assistance. All interactions took place through spoken dialogue in German. During the interaction and when participants completed surveys, the study supervisor was not present in the room to avoid observer bias [41]. The full tutoring interaction was logged as a transcript through the experimenter interface; audio was additionally recorded as a backup. Before participants completed further tests and questionnaires, 11 Figure 3: Study Procedure and Setup the robot was removed from the room to reduce the possibility that the robot’s presence would influence participants’ responses, consistent with research on social responses to artificial agents [44 ]. Participants then completed an identical 12-item knowledge posttest on Information Systems Research , again with a time limit of 12 minutes. Afterward, participants completed a post-interaction questionnaire assessing system acceptance, intrinsic learning motivation, perceived competence, perceived alignment with responsible robot behaviors, and open-ended feedback. The open-ended questions asked what participants liked about the interaction, what could be improved, how learning with the robot differed from learning with a human tutor, and whether any technical problems occurred. The study had an average duration of 74 minutes ( SD = 20 minutes). 

4.5 Manipulation Check 

To check whether the robot’s behavior meaningfully differed across experimental conditions, we conducted a qualitative analysis of the interaction transcripts after data collection. We randomly selected interaction transcripts from three KBD interactions (KBD.1–3) and three control interactions (CTRL.1–3) for qualitative content analysis [ 40 ]. The method was chosen for its capacity to identify behavioral patterns systematically along theoretically derived categories. As only a subset of the interaction transcripts were coded, this analysis serves primarily an illustrative purpose to demonstrate how the conditions differed. The coding was conducted by one member of the research team and reviewed by a second member of the research team, who is a lecturer in Information Systems research methodologies. We applied a consensus-based coding approach in which we discussed disagreements about the codes until consensus was reached [ 12 ]. The overarching main categories of self-, user-, and context-knowledge 

were deductively added based on the previous conceptualization of these knowledge types [ 65 ]. The subcategories “biographical information”, “learning preference”, “learning goal”, “learner emotion”, “assertiveness”, “friendliness”, “conscientiousness”, “role as study buddy”, “learning materials” , and 

“educational strategies” were deductively added based on the selected design requirements from the identification study [ 67 ]. Codes that indicated whether these design requirements were present or absent were inductively added from the material. 12 The main categories captured user-knowledge , such as personal address, references to hobbies or study background ; context-knowledge , such as explicit slide references and slide-grounded ex-planations, as well as Socratic questions as educational strategies; and self-knowledge , such as conscientiously providing correct information, motivational statements, and affirmations. Affirma-tion was further differentiated into generic praise and personalized feedback. Similarly, for the design requirement “learning materials” , we compared sourced claims that refer to the lecture slides with claims that did not have a source. Three of the ten deductively added subcategories were removed after the coding (“learner goal”, “learner emotion”, “role as study buddy” ), because we were not able to identify text passages that specifically related to them. In total, 655 text segments were coded (KBD: 469, Control: 186) into three main categories and seven subcategories (Table 4). The coded documents had similar interaction lengths: The KBD conditions had 164 robot messages in total, while the control conditions had 163 messages in total. The qualitative manipulation check illustrates behavioral differences between conditions. Teachy Mini consistently used Socratic questions. Hence, answers were provided by the student first, and Teachy Mini provided additional explanations and more fine-grained follow-up questions afterwards. On the other hand, the roles in the control condition were switched: The student mainly asked questions, and the robot provided explanations, which is generally considered a less effective learning approach [23, 64]. Relatedly, as the student in the KBD condition provided more answers, Teachy Mini also gave more feedback by providing corrections or affirmative statements (KBD: in 61.5% of all messages; CTRL: in 9.8%). Among affirmative responses, Teachy Mini specified what exactly was right in the students’ explanations in almost all instances, whereas the control robot used affirmative statements without explanation more often (KBD: in 98.1%; CTRL: in 9.8%). Notably, in five of the 15 instances where the students answered wrongly, Teachy Mini should have been more assertive in correcting the students. However, Teachy Mini did not provide any false information itself. On the other hand, the robot in the control condition made ten statements that were factually wrong (i.e., errors in 6.1% of all messages), which highlights the danger of LLM hallucination and false information in educational contexts [ 16 ]. In addition, while Teachy Mini explicitly linked 81.5% of its claims to the lecture slides, the robot in the control condition, which did not have this contextual information, never provided sources. This limited the control robot’s transparency. In the interactions we qualitatively investigated, Teachy Mini generally adapted its behavior to the specified KBD requirements. However, we were not able to confirm whether the robot fulfilled all KBD requirements. To specify, we did not identify reactions to user emotions, as students did not show frustration in the interactions analyzed. Second, the robot did not refer to the user’s learning goal, possibly because it was not particularly relevant in the current interaction paradigm. Further, the Teachy Mini did relatively few adaptations to the students’ learning preferences. In two out of three interactions with Teachy Mini that were qualitatively analyzed, students reported preferences for humor in the opening questions. However, the robot only used humorous explanations once. Although the KBD implementation guided the robot’s behavior in the desired direction, the robot’s behavior was still not fully consistent with its tasks, as exemplified by the fact that Teachy Mini provided an affirmative statement without explanation once, even though it was instructed to provide an explanation. As such, while the robot may be aligned with its instructions in almost all cases, the probabilistic nature of generative AI models still makes truly robust behavior nearly impossible to achieve [ 9 , 31 ]. However, based on the clear behavioral distinction between conditions, we deem the strength of the experimental manipulation strong enough for preliminary investigations of student attitudes and learning gains. 13 Table 4: Overview of Codes and Their Related Design Requirements 

Category and Code Description Example 

Biographical Information Name 

[KBD: 86; CTRL: 0] 

Robot addresses the learner by name. 

“Exactly, [name redacted], you’ve hit the core!” 

Background 

[KBD: 12; CTRL: 0] 

Robot refers to the learner’s field of study or profession. 

“In your degree program in Business Information Systems, this is typically done in projects such as the implementation of new IT systems.” 

Hobby 

[KBD: 5; CTRL: 0] 

Robot refers to the learner’s hobby. 

“Imagine it like strength training: not just theory about muscle growth, but actually doing it.” 

Learning Preferences Learning Procedure 

[KBD: 5; CTRL: 0] 

Robot adjusts its tutoring style based on learner preferences. 

“How would you like to proceed—go through the slides one by one, start with an overview, or jump straight into practice questions?” 

Humor Preference 

[KBD: 1; CTRL: 0] 

Robot uses humor in its explanations. 

“It sounds more complicated than it actually is—kind of like the offside rule [from soccer].” 

Friendliness Affirmation with Explanation 

[KBD: 90; CTRL: 13] 

Robot gives an affirmative response and explains why the answer was correct. 

“Correct, you’ve recognized that the two methodologies are connected, but differ in their fundamental approach.” 

Affirmation without Explanation 

[KBD: 1; CTRL: 3] 

Robot gives an affirmative response without providing a reason. 

“Great, then let’s move straight on to the next concept!” 

Patience 

[KBD: 6; CTRL: 4] 

Robot expresses calmness and composure. 

“All right, take your time with your notes. I’ll be ready whenever you are.” 

Joy 

[KBD: 6; CTRL: 2] 

Robot expresses joy regarding student progress. 

“I’m glad I could help you!” 

Assertiveness Correction 

[KBD: 10; CTRL: 1] 

Robot corrects or clarifies a wrong or partially wrong statement. 

“Your idea about basic research is a good one. However, what we’re aiming for here is slightly different: The slide places particular emphasis on qualitative and quantitative approaches.” 

No Correction 

[KBD: 5; CTRL: 1] 

Robot does not correct a wrong or partially wrong statement. 

“Good point—you’ve already identified that applied research moves toward concrete measurements.” [After the participant suggested that applied research is about measuring outcomes.] Motivation 

[KBD: 4; CTRL: 0] 

Robot provides encouragement. “All right, if you have any more questions, I’m here to help. You’re doing a great job!” 

Conscientiousness Ask for Confirmation 

[KBD: 41; CTRL: 21] 

Robot checks whether the learner understood the explanation. 

“Is this point clear now?” 

False Information 

[KBD: 0; CTRL: 10] 

Robot provides incorrect information. 

“Yes, exactly. For example, analysis can investigate how user behavior develops and which factors influence it.” 

[Mistaken for an explanation.] Learning Materials Sourced Claim 

[KBD: 66; CTRL: 0] 

Robot explicitly refers to a slide. “The slide states that applied research deals with a phenomenon with the aim of improving something or putting it into practice.” 

Claim without Source 

[KBD: 15; CTRL: 130] 

Robot does not state the source of its explanation. 

“Interviews can also be analyzed quantitatively.” 

Educational Strategies Socratic Question 

[KBD: 116; CTRL: 1] 

Robot uses Socratic questions. “How would you tell whether a piece of research is more qualitative than quantitative?”  

> Note. Numbers of coded segments in the KBD and control (CTRL) conditions are shown in brackets.

14 4.6 Analysis 

Prior to hypothesis testing, we assessed the internal consistency and item quality of the self-developed 

Perceived Responsible Behavior scale. Factor loadings from an exploratory factor analysis, corrected item-total correlations, Cronbach 's α, and McDonald 's ω were computed. The initial 10-item scale demonstrated good internal consistency ( α = .83 , ω = .92 ). However, inspection of corrected item-total correlations and factor loadings revealed that item E3_4 ( r = .232 , λ = .196 ) fell below the recommended thresholds of r = .3 and λ = .3 [ 11 ]. This item was therefore excluded from the final scale. The resulting 9-item Perceived Responsible Behavior scale demonstrated slightly better internal consistency than the original scale ( α = .86 , ω = .93 ). We used descriptive statistics to investigate the validity of our self-developed 12-item knowledge test. In the knowledge pretest, participants had an average score of 8.42 ( SD = 2.19) from a maximum of 12 points, indicating a ceiling effect. We then calculated the percentage of correct answers ( p) for each pre- and posttest item. On average, the items in the pretest were rather easy (pTotal = 70.1%, SD = 23.8%), with the optimal difficulty for pretests being between 40% and 60% [ 11 , 18 ]. Five items were very easy, with p > 80%: pD1 = 87.5%, pD2 = 95.8%, pD4 = 83.3%, pD8 =91.6%, pD10 = 83.3%. These five items were excluded from analysis because they provided limited opportunity to detect intervention-related learning gains. Hence, the final knowledge test consisted of 7 items with an average pretest item difficulty of 57.1% ( SD = 23.3%). Group differences for H1 (system acceptance), H2 (intrinsic motivation), and H4 (alignment with responsible behavior) were examined using Welch two-sample t-tests. This approach does not assume equal variances across groups. For H3a, objective learning effectiveness was analyzed using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with pretest scores as a covariate to control for pre-existing knowledge differences between conditions. Regarding H3b, subjective learning effectiveness (perceived competence) was analyzed using a Welch two-sample t-test. An a priori power analysis with the G*Power software indicated that a sample of 42 participants would be required to detect a large effect of d = .80 with α = .05 and a statistical power of 

1 − β = .80 for between-group t-test comparisons. Although research suggests that Welch’s t-test is robust against Type I error inflation in relatively small samples [ 20 ], the present sample (N = 24) was underpowered and therefore had an increased risk of Type II errors. Therefore, the results should be interpreted as preliminary. In particular, non-significant effects should not be interpreted as evidence for the absence of an effect. 

# 5 Results 

The goal of the experiment was to investigate whether Teachy Mini would lead to increased student acceptance (H1), motivation (H2), learning effectiveness (H3), and perceived alignment with responsible robot behavior (H4). First, we present these main hypothesis tests comparing the KBD condition. Second, we report exploratory analyses that examine potential covariates and relationships between the dependent variables. These analyses provide a preliminary picture of whether KBD affected students’ perceptions, learning experience, and interaction outcomes. 

5.1 Main Hypotheses 

A series of two-sample t-tests and an ANCOVA were conducted to examine the four hypotheses. To test Hypothesis H1, a Welch two-sample t-test was conducted comparing system acceptance between the KBD ( M = 5 .04 , SD = 1 .61 ) and control ( M = 5 .01 , SD = 1 .10 ) conditions. The test revealed 15 no significant difference between conditions, t(19 .43) = 0 .057 , p = .955 , 95% CI = {− 1.148 , 1.212 }.H1 was therefore not supported. Hypothesis H2 was also tested using a Welch two-sample t-test comparing intrinsic motivation between conditions. Although the KBD group ( M = 5 .30 , SD = 1 .27 ) reported descriptively higher enjoyment than the control group ( M = 4 .88 , SD = 1 .41 ), this difference did not reach statistical significance, t(21 .76) = 0 .762 , p = .454 , 95% CI = {− 0.718 , 1.551 }. Hence, H2 was not supported. Objective H3a was examined using ANCOVA with pretest score as a covariate. The overall model was significant, F (2 , 21) = 4 .506 , p = .024 , explaining 23.4% of the variance in posttest scores. Pretest score was a significant predictor of posttest performance, B = 0.394, t = 2.952, p = .008, 

CI = [0.116, 0.671]. The KBD group showed a mean learning gain of 0.75 points ( SD = 1.54), compared to 0 points ( SD = 1.54) in the control group. However, this effect was not significant, B =0.447, t = 0.967, p = .344, 95% CI = {− 0.514 , 1.407 }. Additionally, we assessed H3b by comparing participants’ perceived competence between conditions. However, no significant difference was found between the KBD group and the control group, t(19.80) = 0.31, p = .762. By contrast, the control group ( M = 4.71, SD = 1.00) had descriptively higher perceived competence than the KBD group (M = 4.56, SD = 1.41). As such, H3 was supported for neither objective nor subjective learning effectiveness. Regarding Hypothesis H4, a Welch two-sample t-test revealed a significant difference between conditions. The KBD group ( M = 5.49, SD = 1.23) reported significantly higher perceived alignment with responsible robot behavior than the control group ( M = 4.47, SD = 0.95), t(20.65) = 2.277, p

= .034, CI = [0.087, 1.950], d = 0.930. H4 was therefore supported. 

5.2 Exploratory Analysis 

To investigate potential confounding variables and mediation paths, we conducted a series of post-hoc exploratory analyses. First, as an alternative to the t-tests, we conducted linear regressions to explore whether potential confounding variables affected our results. As such, for each hypothesis (H1–H4) we included gender, age, level of education, previous interactions with social robots, perceived baseline competence, general learning motivation, group learning preference, and general attitudes towards social robots as additional covariates. Only learning preference had a significant impact on objective learning effectiveness, such that participants who preferred learning in groups compared to learning alone had significantly greater learning gains ( B = 0.667, t = 2.251, p = .042, CI =[0.027, 1.308]). Further, after accounting for these covariates, the coefficient for the KBD condition was positive and statistically significant ( B = 1.714, t = 2.355, p < .05, CI = [0.142, 3.285]). We then continued to investigate relationships between dependent variables through Pearson correlations (Table 5). We identified significant positive correlations between acceptance and motivation ( r = .692, p < .001), acceptance and subjective learning effectiveness ( r = .729, p <.001), acceptance and perceived responsible behavior ( r = .512, p = .010), motivation and subjective learning effectiveness ( r = .727, p < .001), as well as motivation and perceived responsible behavior (r = .588, p = .003). Based on these intercorrelations between motivation, acceptance, and alignment with responsible behavior, we further explored a potential path model (Figure 4). In this model, perceived alignment with responsible behavior was considered a predictor of both motivation and acceptance because a robot that behaves transparently, appropriately, and responsively could be experienced as a more trustworthy and pedagogically supportive learning partner [ 67 ]. We kept the path from KBD to perceived alignment with responsible behavior, as this path was supported by our main analysis. The proposed model was tested as an observed-variable path model using structural equation modelling, with all constructs represented by their respective mean scores. The path analysis yielded fit indices 16 Table 5: Correlations among Study Variables 

Variable 1 2 3 4 5

1. Acceptance —2. Motivation .692*** —3. Objective Learning Effectiveness −.276 −.149 —4. Subjective Learning Effectiveness .729*** .727*** −.309 —5. Perceived Responsible Behavior .512* .588** −.153 .346 —conventionally associated with acceptable or good fit ( χ2(2) = 2 .197 , p = .333, CFI = .991, TLI =.972, RMSEA = .059, SRMR = .074), but it should be interpreted cautiously as exploratory due to the small sample size [ 39 ]. The path from KBD to perceived alignment with responsible behavior was significant ( β = .437 , b = 1.019, p = .017, 95% CI [0.179, 1.858]). Perceived alignment with responsible behavior, in turn, significantly predicted motivation ( β = .588 , b = 0.655, p < .001, 95% 

CI [0.374, 0.936]) and acceptance ( β = .512 , b = 0.582, p = .021, 95% CI [0.068, 1.078]). There were also significant indirect effects of KBD on learner acceptance ( β = .224 , b = 0.593, p = .016, 95% CI [0.112, 1.073]) and motivation ( β = .257 , b = 0.667, p = .019, 95% CI [0.109, 1.225]). The model explained 19.1% of the variance in perceived alignment with responsible behavior, 34.6% of the variance in motivation, and 26.3% of the variance in acceptance. 

Figure 4: Proposed Path Mode 

# 6 Discussion 

The present reserach developed a GSR tutoring prototype that operationalized selected KBD requirements for higher education and conducted a preliminary evaluation study involving students and recent graduates. Building on the KBD framework proposed by Vonschallen et al. [ 67 ], we developed Teachy Mini, a robot prototype with integrated self-knowledge , user-knowledge , and 

context-knowledge . In a between-subjects study that featured a robot-supported learning interaction, we compared Teachy Mini with a reduced-knowledge control condition using the same robot platform and language model. The main goal was not to establish definitive educational effectiveness, but to examine whether KBD can be implemented in a functioning robot tutor and to explore whether this configuration can change students’ perceptions and interaction experiences within a single tutoring 17 session. The strongest finding concerned perceived alignment with responsible robot behavior. Students in the KBD condition rated the robot as significantly more aligned with responsible tutoring behavior than students in the control condition. This finding provides preliminary support for the core assumption of KBD: that responsible behavior in GSRs can be shaped by systematically configuring what the robot knows about itself, the learner, and the educational context [ 67 ]. This is consistent with both educational AI and educational GSR research emphasizing that content grounding, transparency, and personalization are central for trustworthy learning support [32, 60]. The results for system acceptance, intrinsic motivation, and learning effectiveness remained inconclusive. Hypothesis H1 was not supported, as system acceptance was nearly identical across conditions. Apart from limitations regarding statistical power, one explanation is that during one short interaction, differences in acceptance are harder to detect and may be impacted by factors such as mere exposure or novelty effects [ 22 , 51 ]. Another possibility is that KBD may have been indirectly associated with acceptance through perceived alignment with responsible behavior. This was suggested by the exploratory analysis of a potential path model and is also consistent with prior research suggesting that social qualities such as trustworthiness and pedagogical appropriateness can shape acceptance of social robots [28]. Regarding hypothesis H2, intrinsic motivation was descriptively higher in the KBD condition, but not by a significant amount. This directional pattern is consistent with prior work linking personalization and engagement to motivational outcomes in robot tutoring and AI-based learning [ 46 , 59 ]. Analogous to the findings on acceptance, our exploratory analysis suggests that the degree of perceived alignment with responsible behavior may have mediated the relationship between KBD and intrinsic motivation. This pattern is theoretically plausible, as intrinsic motivation is closely related to perceived competence and trust [ 52 ]. However, future research is needed to investigate the potential of responsible, trustworthy GSRs to increase learner motivation. Hypotheses H3a and H3b were not supported in the main analyses for either objective or subjective learning effectiveness. However, objective learning gains were descriptively higher in the KBD condition, and an exploratory covariate analysis showed a significant positive effect of KBD on objective learning gains when accounting for confounding variables such as preference for group learning. This indicates that some students might benefit more from robot-supported tutoring than others, which highlights the need for more customization [ 67 ]. The mixed pattern regarding the effects of KBD on learning gains may also be explained by the single-session nature of the experiment. In previous research, adaptive robot-supported tutoring had positive effects on learning gains in long-term interaction, but adaptive configurations did not consistently outperform less adaptive versions within a single interaction [22, 21]. Hence, more pronounced effects of KBD on learning effectiveness may only emerge after repeated exposure to the robot. In real-world interactions over longer periods of time, there may also be an indirect effect involved, where stronger perceptions of responsible behaviors may encourage learners to use the GSR more often – as was indicated by our exploratory mediation analysis. More frequent use of tutoring GSRs could then lead users to learn more in general and, subsequently, induce greater learning gains. This highlights the need for long-term field research to increase our understanding of how robots impact learners in the wild [53]. Another interesting finding is that subjective and objective learning effectiveness had a negative (although non-significant) relationship, and students in the control group had descriptively higher average perceived competence, but lower objective learning gains. While this finding may be a statistical artifact from the low sample size, it may also be explained by a key behavioral difference between the two conditions: Teachy Mini focused on Socratic questions, while the robot in the control group provided explanations only, which may reduce critical thinking [ 36 ]. This echoes 18 broader concerns that students learning with generative AI technologies may develop an inflated perception of their own understanding because readily available explanations reduce the need for active knowledge construction [ 32 ]. Hence, GSRs that are not designed to foster active learning, but just to deliver content, may lead students to be overconfident in their own understanding of the subject matter. Lastly, the manipulation check illustrated that the behavior of GSRs can be guided in a desired direction, but it cannot be anticipated with complete certainty, echoing research that highlights the stochastic nature of generative AI [ 9, 48 , 49 , 75 ]. For example, in the KBD condition, the robot was instructed to affirm user statements with an explanation about why the statement was correct. However, despite doing so consistently in almost all interactions we analyzed, it did not provide an explanation in one instance. Furthermore, the robot in the KBD condition did not always correct the students’ wrong statements, despite being instructed to do so. This may be related to known limitations of AI models regarding their sycophantic behavior [ 14 , 15 , 58 ]: If students receive validation from GSRs for statements that are not factually correct, their learning progress may be undermined. 

# 7 Strengths and Limitations 

The current work offers several conceptual, technical, and methodological strengths, while also being subject to limitations that shape the interpretation and generalizability of its findings. A key strength of this research is that it provides the first integration and preliminary experimental evaluation of KBD in a GSR. While previous work identified KBD requirements conceptually and qualitatively [ 67 , 68 ], the present study translated selected requirements into a functioning tutoring robot prototype and examined their effects in an actual learning interaction. This is important for responsible robotics because it moves the discussion from abstract design principles toward implementable system configurations that can be empirically evaluated. However, the present work only investigated a selected subset of the previously identified KBD requirements by Vonschallen et al. [ 67 ]. Although requirements related to learning materials, personalization, educational strategies, role, friendliness, assertiveness, and conscientiousness were directly implemented, other requirements, such as long-term learning progress, course schedules, grades, richer emotion recognition, and awareness of the physical learning environment, were not implemented or only partially addressed. In addition, a fully developed version of a robot with KBD should be more customizable by students [67 ] and moderated by lecturers [ 17 ]. The limited scope of the prototype was appropriate for an initial controlled prototype study, but it means that the evidence should also be interpreted as a partial KBD implementation rather than an implementation of the complete framework. In the future, a tutoring robot based on KBD should also be evaluated in longitudinal settings. This is particularly important as effects on motivation, acceptance, and learning may require repeated exposure to the robot over time. In addition, novelty effects may have influenced participants’ responses in the current evaluation [ 22 , 51 ], particularly because almost all participants had no prior experience interacting with social robots. Long-term field studies will be needed to examine whether KBD effects persist after the novelty of the robot has decreased and whether perceived responsible behavior translates into sustained motivational and learning benefits. These long-term studies will also be necessary to investigate how tutoring robots can be used as social catalysts to motivate, rather than replace interactions with teachers and other students [13, 45, 67]. Another strength of the study is the controlled comparison between two versions of the same robot platform. Both conditions used the same Reachy Mini hardware, language model, learning material, session duration, and general study procedure. This design helped isolate the effect of 19 the KBD integration more clearly than a comparison between different platforms or between robot and non-robot conditions. The use of a physical robot and authentic lecture materials further increased the ecological relevance of the study, as participants interacted with the system in a concrete learning task rather than in a short demonstration or abstract usability scenario. The robot was used alongside a set of available lecture slides. We did so because the primary KBD use case identified for higher education was to help students learn lecture contents [ 67 ]. Hence, having lecture slides available increased the experimental realism of our study. The slides were available in both the KBD and control conditions – which means that differences between conditions should still be attributable to KBD. However, it is unclear whether the overall learning progress stemmed predominantly fromthe interaction with the robot or from self-engagement with the lecture slides. As a result, the additional variance introduced by the lecture slides may have reduced the strength of our experimental manipulation. Future studies should investigate passive control conditions as well, such as learning without a robot and with lecture slides only. One of the major methodological limitations of the current study was the limited sample size. Because the study was underpowered, the non-significant findings for system acceptance, intrinsic motivation, and learning effectiveness should not be interpreted as evidence that KBD has no effect on these variables. Rather, they indicate that larger studies are needed to estimate the effects of KBD more reliably. Nonetheless, our study still found a significant effect for the key assumption that KBD leads to more perceived alignment with responsible behavior. Furthermore, when accounting for confounders such as learner preferences, we observed a positive effect of KBD on learning gains. In addition, the exploratory analysis provided important theoretical and methodological insights for future confirmatory research, particularly regarding potential mediation paths. Another methodological limitation concerns the fact that our implementation relies heavily on the OpenAI Realtime model. We chose this model for practical reasons because it was, at the time, one of the few models capable of adaptive open-ended communication in real time. Research indicates that different LLMs with the same configuration may be somewhat comparable in terms of their outputs [ 55 , 66 ]. Still, it remains uncertain whether the observed effects of KBD truly generalize to other AI models such as Gemini Live. With increasing model capabilities, future research should also employ locally run models for human-robot interaction research, which has advantages regarding both privacy control and replicability [7, 26]. 

# 8 Conclusion 

The paper provides an initial step toward empirically examining KBD for GSRs in higher education. Building on previously identified KBD requirements, we demonstrated how combinations of self-knowledge , user-knowledge , and context-knowledge can be operationalized in a functioning robot tutoring prototype. The preliminary evaluation suggests that such knowledge integration can make responsible tutoring behavior more visible to learners, especially through personalization, slide grounding, Socratic scaffolding, and learner-anchored feedback. While the evidence for effects on motivation, acceptance, and learning remains inconclusive, the study demonstrates that KBD can be treated as an empirically testable design approach rather than only as a conceptual framework. Future research can build on this by testing more complete KBD implementations with larger samples and repeated interactions. From an applied perspective, the findings are relevant for the responsible development of educational robots and LLM-based tutoring systems. As generative AI becomes increasingly integrated into learning technologies, the central question is not only whether such systems can produce fluent dialogue, but whether they can be configured to support learners in accurate, 20 transparent, motivating, and autonomy-preserving ways [ 17 , 32 , 67 ]. To achieve this, it is important to include students and lecturers in the design process to identify relevant design requirements that align with user needs [ 67 ]. Our Teachy Mini system was built on such design requirements and grounded in explicit knowledge about its role, the learner, and the educational context. Although further development and validation are needed before deployment in real educational settings, KBD offers a practical orientation for building GSR tutors that support students without replacing human teachers, peer learning, or critical thinking. Lastly, from a user-focused perspective, it is important to inform students about how to responsibly interact with educational generative AI technologies such as GSRs [ 27 , 47 , 62 ]. This includes equipping students with the skills needed to critically assess AI outputs, recognize their limitations, and use them in ways that enhance rather than undermine independent learning and critical thinking [ 17 , 23 , 29 ]. One practical implication is that students may benefit from prompting AI tools to use comprehension questions rather than relying exclusively on direct explanations. In this sense, the future of educational AI is unlikely to depend solely on building systems that know and explain more, but on systems that support students in thinking critically. 

# References 

[1] Helene Ackermann, Anna L. Lange, Verena V. Hafner, and Rebecca Lazarides. How adaptive social robots influence cognitive, emotional, and self-regulated learning. Scientific Reports ,15(1):6581, February 2025. [2] Lorin W. Anderson, editor. A Taxonomy for Learning, Teaching, and Assessing: A Revision of Bloom’s Taxonomy of Educational Objectives . Longman, New York Munich, abridged ed., [nachdr.] edition, 2009. [3] Saira Anwar, Nicholas Alexander Bascou, Muhsin Menekse, and Asefeh Kardgar. A systematic review of studies on educational robotics. Journal of Pre-College Engineering Education Research (J-PEER) , 9(2), July 2019. [4] Suriya Ganesh Ayyamperumal and Limin Ge. Current state of LLM risks and AI guardrails, 2024. [5] Sundas Azeem and Muhammad Abbas. Personality correlates of academic use of generative artificial intelligence and its outcomes: Does fairness matter? Education and Information Technologies , 30(13):18131–18155, August 2025. [6] Ambroise Baillifard, Maxime Gabella, Pamela Banta Lavenex, and Corinna S. Martarelli. Effec-tive learning with a personal AI tutor: A case study. Education and Information Technologies ,30(1):297–312, January 2025. [7] Farnaz Baksh, Matevž Borjan Zorec, and Karl Kruusamäe. Open-source robotic study compan-ion with multimodal human–robot interaction to improve the learning experience of university students. Applied Sciences , 14(13):5644, June 2024. [8] Tony Belpaeme, James Kennedy, Aditi Ramachandran, Brian Scassellati, and Fumihide Tanaka. Social robots for education: A review. Science Robotics , 3(21):eaat5954, August 2018. [9] Emily M. Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret Shmitchell. On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big? In Proceedings of the 2021 

21 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency , pages 610–623, Virtual Event Canada, March 2021. ACM. [10] Erik Billing, Julia Rosén, and Maurice Lamb. Language models for human-robot interaction. In Companion of the 2023 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction ,pages 905–906, Stockholm Sweden, March 2023. ACM. [11] Godfred O. Boateng, Torsten B. Neilands, Edward A. Frongillo, Hugo R. Melgar-Quiñonez, and Sera L. Young. Best practices for developing and validating scales for health, social, and behavioral research: A primer. Frontiers in Public Health , 6:149, June 2018. [12] Virginia Braun and Victoria Clarke. Successful Qualitative Research: A Practical Guide for Beginners . Sage Publications, Inc, 2013. [13] Huili Chen, Yubin Kim, Kejia Patterson, Cynthia Breazeal, and Hae Won Park. Social robots as conversational catalysts: Enhancing long-term human-human interaction at home. Science Robotics , 10(100):eadk3307, March 2025. [14] Shan Chen, Mingye Gao, Kuleen Sasse, Thomas Hartvigsen, Brian Anthony, Lizhou Fan, Hugo Aerts, Jack Gallifant, and Danielle S. Bitterman. When helpfulness backfires: LLMs and the risk of false medical information due to sycophantic behavior. npj Digital Medicine , 8(1):605, October 2025. [15] Myra Cheng, Cinoo Lee, Pranav Khadpe, Sunny Yu, Dyllan Han, and Dan Jurafsky. Sycophantic AI decreases prosocial intentions and promotes dependence. Science , 391(6792):eaec8352, March 2026. [16] Bogdan-Iulian Ciubotaru. The hallucination problem in generative artificial intelligence: Accuracy and trust in digital learning. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Virtual Learning (20th Edition) , pages 35–45. The National Institute for Research & Development in Informatics - ICI Bucharest (ICI Publishing House), April 2025. [17] Diana-Margarita Córdova-Esparza. AI-powered educational agents: Opportunities, innovations, and ethical challenges. Information , 16(6):469, May 2025. [18] Linda M. Crocker and James Algina. Introduction to Classical and Modern Test Theory . Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, New York, 1986. [19] Fred D. Davis. Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly , 13(3):319–340, September 1989. [20] Marie Delacre, Daniël Lakens, and Christophe Leys. Why psychologists should by default use Welch’s t-test instead of Student’s t-test. International Review of Social Psychology ,30(1):92–101, April 2017. [21] Melissa Donnermann, Philipp Schaper, and Birgit Lugrin. Social robots in applied settings: A long-term study on adaptive robotic tutors in higher education. Frontiers in Robotics and AI ,9:831633, March 2022. [22] Melissa Donnermann, Philipp Schaper, and Birgit Lugrin. Application of social robots in higher education: A long-term study. International Journal of Social Robotics , 17(10):2311–2326, October 2025. 22 [23] Linda Elder and Richard Paul. The role of socratic questioning in thinking, teaching, and learning. The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas , 71(5):297– 301, May 1998. [24] Maha Elgarf, Hanan Salam, and Christopher Peters. Fostering children’s creativity through LLM-driven storytelling with a social robot. Frontiers in Robotics and AI , 11:1457429, December 2024. [25] Luciano Floridi, Josh Cowls, Thomas C. King, and Mariarosaria Taddeo. How to design AI for social good: Seven essential factors. Science and Engineering Ethics , 26(3):1771–1796, June 2020. [26] Hatice Gunes, Frank Broz, Chris S. Crawford, Astrid Rosenthal-von Der Pütten, Megan Strait, and Laurel Riek. Reproducibility in human-robot interaction: Furthering the science of HRI. 

Current Robotics Reports , 3(4):281–292, October 2022. [27] Veronika Hackl, Alexandra Elena Müller, and Maximilian Sailer. The AI literacy heptagon: A structured approach to AI literacy in higher education. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 10:100540, June 2026. [28] Marcel Heerink, Ben Kröse, Vanessa Evers, and Bob Wielinga. Assessing acceptance of assistive social agent technology by older adults: The Almere model. International Journal of Social Robotics , 2(4):361–375, December 2010. [29] Wayne Holmes, Kaska Porayska-Pomsta, Ken Holstein, Emma Sutherland, Toby Baker, Si-mon Buckingham Shum, Olga C. Santos, Mercedes T. Rodrigo, Mutlu Cukurova, Ig Ibert Bittencourt, and Kenneth R. Koedinger. Ethics of AI in education: Towards a community-wide framework. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 32(3):504–526, September 2022. [30] Chenyu Hou, Gaoxia Zhu, Vidya Sudarshan, Fun Siong Lim, and Yew Soon Ong. Measuring undergraduate students’ reliance on Generative AI during problem-solving: Scale development and validation. Computers & Education , 234:105329, September 2025. [31] Andrew Hundt, Rumaisa Azeem, Masoumeh Mansouri, and Martim Brandão. LLM-driven robots risk enacting discrimination, violence, and unlawful actions. International Journal of Social Robotics , October 2025. [32] Enkelejda Kasneci, Kathrin Sessler, Stefan Küchemann, Maria Bannert, Daryna Dementieva, Frank Fischer, Urs Gasser, Georg Groh, Stephan Günnemann, Eyke Hüllermeier, Stephan Krusche, Gitta Kutyniok, Tilman Michaeli, Claudia Nerdel, Jürgen Pfeffer, Oleksandra Poquet, Michael Sailer, Albrecht Schmidt, Tina Seidel, Matthias Stadler, Jochen Weller, Jochen Kuhn, and Gjergji Kasneci. ChatGPT for good? On opportunities and challenges of large language models for education. Learning and Individual Differences , 103:102274, April 2023. [33] Callie Y. Kim, Christine P. Lee, and Bilge Mutlu. Understanding large-language model (LLM)-powered human-robot interaction. In Proceedings of the 2024 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction , pages 371–380, Boulder CO USA, March 2024. ACM. [34] Michael Klesel and H. Felix Wittmann. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). Business & Information Systems Engineering , 67(4):551–561, August 2025. 23 [35] Georgios Lampropoulos. Social robots in education: Current trends and future perspectives. 

Information , 16(1):29, January 2025. [36] Changyue Li, Hang Cui, and Linda Serra Hagedorn. The cognitive impact of ChatGPT in higher education: A systematic review of critical and creative thinking outcomes. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 10:100571, June 2026. [37] Zongxi Li, Zijian Wang, Weiming Wang, Kevin Hung, Haoran Xie, and Fu Lee Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation for educational application: A systematic survey. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 8:100417, June 2025. [38] Chad N. Loes. The effect of collaborative learning on academic motivation. Teaching and Learning Inquiry , 10, January 2022. [39] Cora J. M. Maas and Joop J. Hox. Sufficient sample sizes for multilevel modeling. Methodology ,1(3):86–92, January 2005. [40] Philipp Mayring. Qualitative Content Analysis: A Step-by-Step Guide . SAGE Publications, Thousand Oaks, 2021. [41] Jim McCambridge, John Witton, and Diana R. Elbourne. Systematic review of the Hawthorne effect: New concepts are needed to study research participation effects. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology , 67(3):267–277, March 2014. [42] Hannah Möltner, Nina Pötter, Sören Abel, Sandra Sülzenbrück, and Und Pascal Nevries. Validierung einer deutschen Übersetzung der Academic Motivation Scale: Eine Skala zur Messung der Studienmotivation (AMS-D). Diagnostica , 70(4):151–161, October 2024. [43] Omar Mubin, Catherine J. Stevens, Suleman Shahid, Abdullah Al Mahmud, and Jian-Jie Dong. A review of the applicability of robots in education. Technology for Education and Learning ,1(1), 2013. [44] Clifford Nass, Jonathan Steuer, and Ellen R. Tauber. Computers are social actors. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 72–78, Boston Massachusetts USA, April 1994. ACM. [45] Senad Orhani. Robots assist or replace teachers in the classroom. Journal of Elementary and Secondary School , 1(1):29–41, March 2023. [46] Rashmi Yogesh Pai, Ankitha Shetty, Tantri Keerthi Dinesh, Adithya D. Shetty, and Namrata Pillai. Effectiveness of social robots as a tutoring and learning companion: A bibliometric analysis. Cogent Business & Management , 11(1):2299075, December 2024. [47] Fadlan Nugraha Nur Pangestu, Ida Hamidah, Lilis Widaningsih, Ade Gafar Abdullah, and Nisa Aulia Saputra. A scoping literature review of prompt engineering for bridging students AI literacy in higher education. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 10:100581, June 2026. [48] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S. Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In 

Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology ,pages 1–22, San Francisco CA USA, October 2023. ACM. 24 [49] Linlu Qiu, Fei Sha, Kelsey Allen, Yoon Kim, Tal Linzen, and Sjoerd Van Steenkiste. Bayesian teaching enables probabilistic reasoning in large language models. Nature Communications ,17(1):1238, January 2026. [50] Siema Ramdas, Marieke Slootman, and Karen Van Der Zee. Creating equitable learning environments by building on differences in higher education: Design and implementation of the MIXED model. Learning Environments Research , 28(2):307–322, August 2025. [51] Merle Reimann, Jesper Van De Graaf, Nina Van Gulik, Stephanie Van De Sanden, Tibert Verhagen, and Koen Hindriks. Social robots in the wild and the novelty effect. In Abdulaziz Al Ali, John-John Cabibihan, Nader Meskin, Silvia Rossi, Wanyue Jiang, Hongsheng He, and Shuzhi Sam Ge, editors, Social Robotics , volume 14454, pages 38–48. Springer Nature Singapore, Singapore, 2024. [52] Richard M. Ryan and Edward L. Deci. Intrinsic and extrinsic motivations: Classic definitions and new directions. Contemporary Educational Psychology , 25(1):54–67, January 2000. [53] S. Sabanovic, M.P. Michalowski, and R. Simmons. Robots in the wild: Observing human-robot social interaction outside the lab. In 9th IEEE International Workshop on Advanced Motion Control, 2006. , pages 596–601, Istanbul, Turkey, 2006. IEEE. [54] Koen Smit, Sam Leewis, Hussin Almoustafa, Kenan Yildirim, and Talha Uymaz. Enhancing educational dynamics integrating large language models with a social robot. In Proceedings of the 2024 8th International Conference on Software and E-Business , pages 87–94, Osaka Japan, December 2024. ACM. [55] Brandon Smith, Mohamed Reda Bouadjenek, Tahsin Alamgir Kheya, Phillip Dawson, and Sunil Aryal. A comprehensive analysis of large language model outputs: Similarity, diversity, and bias, May 2025. [56] Nicolas Spatola, Olga A. Wudarczyk, Tatsuya Nomura, and Emna Cherif. Attitudes towards robots measure (ARM): A new measurement tool aggregating previous scales assessing attitudes toward robots. International Journal of Social Robotics , 15(9-10):1683–1701, October 2023. [57] Erich Studerus, Vivienne Jia Zhong, and Stephan Vonschallen. A framework for low-latency, LLM-driven multimodal interaction on the Pepper robot. In Proceedings of the 21st ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction , pages 1298–1302, Edinburgh Scotland UK, March 2026. ACM. [58] Yuan Sun and Ting Wang. Be friendly, not friends: How LLM sycophancy shapes user trust. In Proceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 1–15, Barcelona Spain, April 2026. ACM. [59] Osman Tasdelen and Daniel Bodemer. Generative AI in the classroom: Effects of context-personalized learning material and tasks on motivation and performance. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 35(5):3049–3070, December 2025. [60] Gabriella Tisza, Panos Markopoulos, Sofia Serholt, Jauwairia Nasir, Omar Mubin, Adriana Tapus, Salvatore Anzalone, Koen V. Hindriks, Paul A. Vogt, Vasiliki Charisi, Emiel Krahmer, Mark A. Neerincx, Kaisa Väänänen, Daniela Conti, Jan De Wit, and Emilia I. Barakova. Generative AI-powered social robots in education: Opportunities and challenges from a Delphi study. Behaviour & Information Technology , pages 1–23, December 2025. 25 [61] Jonathan G. Tullis and Robert L. Goldstone. Why does peer instruction benefit student learning? Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications , 5(1):15, December 2020. [62] Anastasia Olga (Olnancy) Tzirides, Gabriela Zapata, Nikoleta Polyxeni Kastania, Akash K. Saini, Vania Castro, Sakinah A. Ismael, Yu-ling You, Tamara Afonso Dos Santos, Duane Searsmith, Casey O’Brien, Bill Cope, and Mary Kalantzis. Combining human and artificial intelligence for enhanced AI literacy in higher education. Computers and Education Open ,6:100184, June 2024. [63] Steven Umbrello and Ibo Van De Poel. Mapping value sensitive design onto AI for social good principles. AI and Ethics , 1(3):283–296, August 2021. [64] Janneke Van De Pol, Monique Volman, and Jos Beishuizen. Scaffolding in teacher–student interaction: A decade of research. Educational Psychology Review , 22(3):271–296, September 2010. [65] Stephan Vonschallen, Friederike Eyssel, and Theresa Schmiedel. Understanding persuasive interactions between generative social agents and humans: The Knowledge-based Persuasion Model (KPM), 2026. [66] Stephan Vonschallen, Rahel Häusler, Theresa Schmiedel, and Friederike Eyssel. Never say never: Exploring the effects of available knowledge on agent persuasiveness in controlled physiotherapy motivation dialogues, 2026. [67] Stephan Vonschallen, Dominique Oberle, Theresa Schmiedel, and Friederike Eyssel. Knowledge-Based Design Requirements for Generative Social Robots in Higher Education, May 2026. [68] Stephan Vonschallen, Dominique Oberle, Theresa Schmiedel, and Friederike Eyssel. Knowledge-based design requirements for generative social robots in higher education, 2026. [69] Stephan Vonschallen, Ennio Zumthor, Markus Simon, Theresa Schmiedel, and Friederike Eyssel. Knowledge-based design requirements for persuasive generative social robots in eldercare. In Mariacarla Staffa, John-John Cabibihan, Bruno Siciliano, Shuzhi Sam Ge, Leon Bodenhagen, Adriana Tapus, Silvia Rossi, Filippo Cavallo, Laura Fiorini, Marco Matarese, and Hongsheng He, editors, Social Robotics + AI , volume 16131, pages 224–240. Springer Nature Singapore, Singapore, 2026. [70] Laura Weidinger, John Mellor, Maribeth Rauh, Conor Griffin, Jonathan Uesato, Po-Sen Huang, Myra Cheng, Mia Glaese, Borja Balle, Atoosa Kasirzadeh, Zac Kenton, Sasha Brown, Will Hawkins, Tom Stepleton, Courtney Biles, Abeba Birhane, Julia Haas, Laura Rimell, Lisa Anne Hendricks, William Isaac, Sean Legassick, Geoffrey Irving, and Iason Gabriel. Ethical and social risks of harm from Language Models, 2021. [71] Ryan Thomas Williams. The ethical implications of using generative chatbots in higher education. Frontiers in Education , 8:1331607, January 2024. [72] Hansol Woo, Gerald K. LeTendre, Trang Pham-Shouse, and Yuhan Xiong. The use of social robots in classrooms: A review of field-based studies. Educational Research Review , 33:100388, June 2021. [73] Wenyuan Wu, Jasmin Heierli, Max Meisterhans, Adrian Moser, Andri Färber, Mateusz Dolata, Elena Gavagnin, Alexandre De Spindler, and Gerhard Schwabe. PROMISE: A framework for 26 model-driven stateful prompt orchestration. In Shareeful Islam and Arnon Sturm, editors, 

Intelligent Information Systems , volume 520, pages 157–165. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 2024. [74] Weiqi Xu and Fan Ouyang. Robotic roles in education: A systematic review based on a proposed framework of the learner-robot relationships. Educational Research Review , 47:100685, May 2025. [75] Roman V. Yampolskiy. AI: Unexplainable, Unpredictable, Uncontrollable . Chapman and Hall/CRC, Boca Raton, 1 edition, January 2024. [76] Karen R. Young, Henry E. Schaffer, Jasmine B. James, and Maria T. Gallardo-Williams. Tired of failing students? Improving student learning using detailed and automated individualized feedback in a large introductory science course. Innovative Higher Education , 46(2):133–151, April 2021. [77] Chunpeng Zhai, Santoso Wibowo, and Lily D. Li. The effects of over-reliance on AI dialogue systems on students’ cognitive abilities: A systematic review. Smart Learning Environments ,11(1):28, June 2024. [78] Enming Zhang and Yunyun Liu. Effects of private tutoring intervention on students’ academic achievement: A systematic review based on a three-level meta-analysis model and robust variance estimation method. International Journal of Educational Research , 112:101949, 2022. 27