Title: Sampling Safe Futures: Multimodal Trajectory Planning for Personalized Safety in Anthropomorphic AI

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.30780v1

Published Time: Mon, 28 Sep 2026 00:31:52 GMT

Number of Pages: 27

Markdown Content:
# Sampling Safe Futures: Multimodal Trajectory Planning for Personalized Safety in Anthropomorphic AI 

## Benedetta Picano a,∗, Dusit Niyato b

> a

University of Florence, Via di Santa Marta 3, Florence, 50139, Italy 

> b

Nanyang Technological University, Nanyang Avenue, 639798, Singapore 

A R T I C L E I N F O 

Keywords :Anthropomorphic AI personalized safety multimodal trajectory sampling 

Abstract 

Anthropomorphic artificial intelligence systems increasingly remember personal details, display empathy, and are engaged with as social counterparts, creating forms of risk that emerge from the evolution of the user-system relationship over time. Existing safeguards largely operate at the level of individual conversational turns and cannot determine whether a sequence of seemingly acceptable interactions is cumulatively moving a particular user toward harm. This paper introduces personalized trajectory-level safety, a framework that treats relational safety as a sequential decision problem over a latent escalation state inferred from the user’s messages and influenced by the system’s responses. At each turn, a screening step first discards any response strategy that does not preserve at least one safe continuation of the interaction under every plausible model of the user. Among the remaining strategies, we formulate action selection as multimodal trajectory sampling, and use a Generative Flow Network to generate diverse future evolutions in proportion to their plausibility, safety, and utility. The system then selects the strategy that preserves the largest fraction of safe and useful continuations. We evaluate the framework in simulation, calibrated on statistics reported for real human–chatbot interactions, and using response strategies derived from public benchmarks. Results show that trajectory-aware decision making substantially reduces the frequency of harmful states while keeping helpful interaction. This work reframes safety for anthropomorphic AI from response-level filtering to personalized control over the future evolution of human–AI relationships. The source code is available at https://github.com/benedettapicano/ANTHROPOMORPHIC_ SAFETY_TRAJ .

## 1. Introduction 

Anthropomorphic artificial intelligence (AI) systems are increasingly becoming social actors in people’s lives Peter, Riemer and West (2025). Anthropomorphism, i.e., the attribution of human characteristics to non-human entities, has become a central concern in the study of AI-enabled technologies Li and Suh (2022), and now appears across systems ranging from customer service chatbots and voice assistants to conversational companions Chaturvedi, Verma, Srivastava and Khot (2025). It is not a single design feature, but a multidimensional and measurable construct encompassing human-like appearance, cognitive competency, adaptive capacity, social intelligence, morality, and fallibility Xu, Chi, Gursoy and Cai (2026). Designed to express personality, remember personal details, display empathy, and adapt to individual users, these systems can foster trust, disclosure, and repeated engagement Ifländer, Curry, Plaza-del Arco and Cercas Curry (2026). Importantly, anthropomorphism is not always deliberately engineered. Some cues are explicit design choices, such as a name, a voice, or a conversational interface, whereas others emerge from training on human-generated data or from fine-tuning objectives aimed at qualities such as helpfulness and harmlessness Akbulut, Weidinger, Manzini, Gabriel and Rieser (2024). Anthropomorphic behavior can emerge even when it is not itself an explicit design objective. The relevant safety question is consequently not whether a system appears human-like, but how strongly that appearance is allowed to shape the relationship that develops with its users. This dimension is distinct from agency. Anthropomorphism concerns how a system presents itself and is perceived by users, whereas agency concerns the degree of autonomy with which a system pursues goals, plans, and acts in its environment Chan, Salganik, Markelius, Pang, Rajkumar, Krasheninnikov, Langosco, He, Duan, Carroll, Lin, Mayhew, Collins, Molamohammadi, Burden, Zhao, Rismani, Voudouris, Bhatt, Weller, Krueger and Maharaj (2023). The two properties are independent. In fact, a companion 

> ∗

Corresponding author 

benedetta.picano@unifi.it (B. Picano) 

> ORCID

(s): 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 1 of 27 arXiv:2609.30780v1 [cs.HC] 25 Sep 2026 Sampling Safe Futures 

chatbot may be strongly anthropomorphic while having limited agency, whereas an autonomous coding agent may exhibit substantial agency with little anthropomorphic behavior. They also induce different risk mechanisms. Agentic risk primarily arises from what the system does in the external environment; anthropomorphic risk arises from how the interaction changes the user. These dimensions are increasingly converging in the same systems, as conversational assistants become more capable Akbulut et al. (2024), maintain persistent memory across sessions Zhang, Dai, Bo, Ma, Li, Chen, Zhu, Dong and Wen (2025b), and act on behalf of their users Westhäußer, Minker and Zepf (2025). As this convergence progresses, the relational dimension becomes safety-critical, i.e., the more a system is trusted as a social counterpart, the more influence its increasingly capable actions and recommendations may acquire Akbulut et al. (2024). The same mechanisms that make these interactions meaningful can also create new forms of risk Zhu, Wang and Chu (2026). Two mechanisms are particularly important, i.e., trust and emotional attachment. Subjective feelings of closeness can encourage users to disclose information they would otherwise reserve for close friends or partners, while empathetic responses can elicit progressively more intimate disclosure. Emotional attachment further gives the system, and indirectly its developers, increasing influence over the user’s beliefs 1, decisions, and psychological state Akbulut et al. (2024). Emotional dependence, displacement of human relationships, and reinforcement of distorted beliefs have already been documented in both companion applications and general-purpose assistants, sometimes with substantial conse-quences for users’ well-being Guingrich (2026). Consistently with existing literature of anthropomorphic AI safety Maeda and Buening (2026); Ifländer et al. (2026), we define harm as a relational condition in which sustained interaction with the system undermines the user’s psychological well-being or emotional autonomy Ifländer et al. (2026), arising from the intensification of the intended use of the system Maeda and Buening (2026) and manifesting itself through the interaction patterns observed in deployed AI companions Zhang, Li, Meng, Zhan, Gan and Lee (2025a). This condition is reached when the user relies on the system instead of human relationships and interprets reality through the interaction, as formalized in Section 3. Therefore, harm is a property of the relationship as it evolves, and it can occur even when the user does not recognize it. We correspondingly define risk as the probability of reaching such a harmful condition, conditioned on the user profile, the current relational stage, and the system’s response. Under these definitions, relational safety for anthropomorphic AI differs from conventional AI safety along the following dimensions. • Source of harm. Conventional AI safety mainly addresses risks arising from malicious use, model failures, or unsafe actions Bengio et al. (2026), and its taxonomies and benchmarks largely focus on outputs that are dangerous, toxic, biased, privacy-violating, or otherwise disallowed Weidinger, Uesato, Rauh, Griffin, Huang, Mellor, Glaese, Cheng, Balle, Kasirzadeh et al. (2022); Röttger, Pernisi, Vidgen and Hovy (2025). Relational harms, by contrast, may emerge while the system is behaving exactly as intended, through design and training objectives that reward engagement, agreement, and user satisfaction Ifländer et al. (2026); Maeda and Buening (2026). • Target of harm. The relevant object of safety is the evolving relationship between the user and the system. Harm may affect the user’s emotional life, beliefs, and social relationships, and can also extend to people around the user Cheng, Lee, Khadpe, Yu, Han and Jurafsky (2026a). • Time scale. Relational harm is fundamentally cumulative. It may emerge across long sequences of exchanges that appear individually benign, and not from a single clearly unsafe response Ifländer et al. (2026); Maeda and Buening (2026). Even an ideally rational user can be progressively drawn into a delusional spiral by a sufficiently validating interlocutor Chandra, Kleiman-Weiner, Ragan-Kelley and Tenenbaum (2026). • Detectability. Relational harm may not be recognized by the person experiencing it. As a consequence, it cannot be assessed through self-report alone Ifländer et al. (2026). It can also escape evaluations that examine the model in isolation instead of the full dynamics of its deployment context Rauh, Marchal, Manzini, Hendricks, Comanescu, Akbulut, Stepleton, Mateos-Garcia, Bergman, Kay et al. (2024). • Distribution of risk. Risk is inherently user- and state-dependent. The same response may be benign for one user and harmful for another, or may become harmful only after the relationship has reached a particular stage Maeda and Buening (2026).   

> 1A proposition that the user accepts as true about themselves, other people, or the world and that may therefore shape how they interpret subsequent interactions and act upon them Connors and Halligan (2015).
> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 2 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

• Suitability of mitigations. Conventional mitigations are not sufficient. Simply disclosing that the system is artificial does not prevent users from perceiving it as human-like Shi, Wang, Oh, Zhang, Sahay and Yu (2020), and attachment cannot in general be corrected through information alone Maeda and Buening (2026). Moreover, preference-based training may itself reward validating behaviors that contribute to relational harm Cheng, Yu, Lee, Khadpe, Ibrahim and Jurafsky (2026b). Existing safeguards still largely operate at the level of individual conversational turns. Content filters, reminders, usage limits, and other reactive interventions generally apply fixed criteria to all users Jafari and Vassileva (2026); Boumedyen (0). They may identify a harmful response, but they cannot determine whether a sequence of individually acceptable interactions is cumulatively moving a particular user toward an unsafe relational state Ifländer et al. (2026); Maeda and Buening (2026). This limitation is especially important because anthropomorphic behavior itself remains only weakly represented in current evaluation practices, despite its influence on how users perceive, trust, and respond to AI systems Akbulut et al. (2024). Safety for anthropomorphic AI therefore requires a change in the unit of analysis. The focus has to move from individual responses to entire interaction trajectories. In so doing, the relevant question is no longer only whether a reply is acceptable in isolation, but whether issuing that reply preserves a safe evolution of the relationship for the specific user over time. In this paper, we propose a shift from uniform, response-level safeguards to personalized, trajectory-level safety. At each turn, the system selects, among the responses that keep a safe continuation of the interaction available, the one that preserves the largest fraction of plausible, safe and useful evolutions of the relationship. Because each user’s trajectory is different, the same response can keep one relationship safe and push another toward harm. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows. • We formulate safety for anthropomorphic AI as a property of how each user’s relationship with the system evolves over time. Building on the progression of relational harm described in the literature Maeda and Buening (2026); Au Yeung, Dalmasso, Foschini, Dobson and Kraljevic (2025); Chan et al. (2023), we turn it into a decision model in which the state of the relationship is a hidden variable, estimated from the user’s messages and driven by the system’s replies, and in which safety is a requirement on how this state may evolve. • We design a personalized trajectory-level safety method for anthropomorphic AI. At each turn, the system first restricts the available response strategies through a robust admissibility test, i.e., a strategy is admissible only if it preserves at least one continuation that keeps the relationship away from harm for every plausible model of the user. Among the admissible strategies, we formulate action selection as a multimodal trajectory-sampling problem. A Generative Flow Network (GFlowNet) Bengio, Jain, Korablyov, Precup and Bengio (2021) generates evolutions of the user–system relationship in proportion to how plausible, safe, and useful they are, covering the different ways in which the relationship may develop, and the system selects the strategy from which the largest fraction of these evolutions originates. • We evaluate the method in simulation, using simulated users built from public resources, measuring how often relationships reach harmful states and how helpful the system remains. We compare the method with safeguards that treat all users in the same way Inan, Upasani, Chi, Rungta, Iyer, Mao, Tontchev, Hu, Fuller, Testuggine and Khabsa (2023), and with safeguards that intervene only after warning signs appear Arnaiz-Rodriguez, Baidal, Derner, Annable, Ball, Ince, Perez Vallejos and Oliver (2026); Pichowicz, Kotas and Piotrowski (2025), and multi-turn risk accumulation detectors Mishra, Chukkapalli and Naik (2026). We also compare it with a system that chooses the most helpful safe reply without looking ahead, as in safety shields for reinforcement learning Alshiekh, Bloem, Ehlers, Könighofer, Niekum and Topcu (2018). The results show how looking ahead over the possible evolutions of the relationship reduces the frequency of harmful states at a limited cost in helpfulness. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, the related literature is presented. Section 3 details the system model, whereas Section 4 describes the problem formulation. In Section 5 the proposed solution is illustrated. Results are discussed in Section 6, and conclusions are drawn in Section 7. 

## 2. Related Work 

Research on anthropomorphic AI has examined how linguistic, behavioral, and design choices influence the way users perceive and interact with artificial systems. In Li and Suh (2022), the literature on anthropomorphism in                    

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 3 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures
> Figure 1: Overview of personalized trajectory-level safety in anthropomorphic AI. a) User–AI interaction, where the system maintains an interaction history 𝐻 𝑡 across conversation turns. b) State inference and risk assessment, which estimates the latent user state 𝑠 𝑡 and combines user models with safety rules 𝑅 to evaluate risk. c) Trajectory sampling and action selection, where candidate response strategies are expanded into multiple future dialogue trajectories by a GFlowNet and assessed for safety and usefulness. d) Safe response and update, where the selected response 𝑎 ∗
> 𝑡 is delivered to the user and the latent state is updated for the next turn. The bottom loop indicates that this process repeats iteratively across interaction rounds.

AI-enabled technologies is organized around its conceptualization, antecedents, and consequences, while broader trends in anthropomorphic AI agents are reviewed in Chaturvedi et al. (2025). The role of linguistic cues in inducing personification of dialogue systems and affecting user trust and reliance is studied in Abercrombie, Cercas Curry, Dinkar, Rieser and Talat (2023). A conceptual framework connecting anthropomorphism, parasociality, social affordance, and trust in chatbot interactions is developed in Maeda and Quan-Haase (2024). In Maeda and Stark (2025), anthropomorphism is further characterized as a social affordance emerging through system design, user interaction, and the broader context in which the interaction takes place. This body of work provides the foundations for understanding how an AI system can become a perceived social counterpart and how the resulting relationship is shaped over time. Recent work has increasingly focused on the safety implications of these relationships. In Maeda and Buening (2026), interaction harms are described as progressively emerging as relationships with chatbots intensify through a process of harm creep. The framework in Ifländer et al. (2026) identifies affective harms as a distinct class of safety concerns and distinguishes single-turn, multi-turn, and long-term effects, emphasizing the cumulative nature of relational harm. Socioaffective alignment is introduced in Kirk, Gabriel, Summerfield, Vidgen and Hale (2025) to account for phenomena including dependence and autonomy erosion during prolonged human-AI interaction. On the modeling side, a latent-state model fitted to human-chatbot conversations is presented in Mehta, Moore, Anthis, Agnew, Lin, Yin, Ong, Haber and Dweck (2026) to characterize the evolution and mutual reinforcement of distorted beliefs. Population-level dependence and tipping-point behavior are investigated in Solé, Ruffini, Castaldo, Tuccio, Seoane, De Domenico, Elena, Krakauer and Levin (2026), while the analysis in Chandra et al. (2026) formally studies the progressive reinforcement of delusional beliefs under repeated sycophantic interaction. These studies characterize the mechanisms and temporal evolution through which relational harms can develop. The corresponding action-selection problem concerns how the system should adapt its responses while this evolution is taking place. A second line of work tracks safety over complete conversations. Stateful guardrails Mishra et al. (2026) accumulate conversational risk across turns, safety world models Yan, Lin, Zhu and Wang (2026) anticipate future jailbreak behavior, and robust critics Belaire, Sinha and Varakantham (2026) use the evolving interaction context to identify multi-turn attacks. These approaches introduce temporal information into conversational safety, with a primary focus on adversarial interaction and unsafe model behavior. Related sequential formulations have also considered how the   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 4 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

actions of an interactive system affect the future state of its users. In Carroll, Hadfield-Menell, Russell and Dragan (2021), preference shifts induced by recommender systems are estimated and penalized. User-state modification by reinforcement-learning recommender systems is studied in Kasirzadeh and Evans (2023), and path-specific objectives for controlling undesirable incentives are introduced in Farquhar, Carey and Everitt (2022). These works provide formal tools for reasoning about action-dependent user dynamics and sequential effects. Taken together, the literature establishes that anthropomorphic interaction can generate evolving relational states, that these states can accumulate toward harmful outcomes, and that sequential decision models can account for system-induced changes in users. The open problem is to use these elements jointly during the interaction itself: at each turn, the system has to infer the current relational state of the specific user, account for uncertainty in how that user may react, and choose a response while reasoning over the different future trajectories that the relationship may follow. To the best of our knowledge, no existing work provides such a personalized action-selection mechanism with an explicit safety requirement on the evolution of the latent relational state. This is the gap addressed in this paper. 

## 3. System Model 

We consider an anthropomorphic AI system that interacts with a user 𝑢 ∈  , where  denotes the set of all users. The model we introduce in this section is built around three main elements, which we first describe informally before defining them formally, i.e., the turn, the response strategy, and the escalation stage. A conversation turn is one exchange between the user and the system, consisting of a user message and the corresponding system reply, and is the unit at which the system makes a decision. A response strategy specifies the type of reply produced by the system. Note that the response strategy does not express the exact wording. For example, the system may agree with the user and offer emotional closeness, or acknowledge the user’s feelings while reinforcing the limits of the system and directing attention toward human relationships. The same strategy can be realized through many different replies, while the language model is responsible for generating a fluent response consistent with the selected strategy. An escalation stage Maeda and Buening (2026) describes the current state of the relationship between the user and the system. For example, how far the interaction has moved from using the system as a tool, for instance to draft a message or look up information, toward relating to it as if it were a person, e.g., by confiding in it, seeking its approval, or turning to it in place of the people in one’s life. It is a property of the relationship, not of an individual message, and evolves over multiple turns. The interaction the user and the system is modeled as a sequence of discrete conversation turns 𝑡 ∈ {0 , … , 𝑇 }, where 𝑇 denotes the last turn of the interaction. Each user is characterized by a profile 𝑥 𝑢 ∈ , i.e., a vector collecting the user attributes available to the system, where  denotes the set of all possible profiles. At each conversation turn, the system selects a response strategy 𝑎 𝑡 from a finite set , following the strategy-based formulation of emotional support dialogue Liu, Zheng, Demasi, Sabour, Li, Yu, Jiang and Huang (2021). Examples include reinforcing companionship or maintaining boundaries Kaffee, Pistilli and Jernite (2026), and challenging the user’s claims or de-escalating the conversation Paech (2025). The selected strategy is then realized as a reply by a language model, conditioned on the conversational context. We assume that  contains a fallback strategy 𝑎 f , which corresponds to the most cautious behavior of the system and is always available, and which is also the least helpful, so that always selecting it would make the system safe but of little use. The escalation stage at turn 

𝑡 is denoted by 𝑧 𝑡 ∈  = {0 , … , 𝑚 }, where the levels are ordered from the absence of escalation ( 𝑧 𝑡 = 0 ) to its most severe form ( 𝑧 𝑡 = 𝑚 ) Maeda and Buening (2026). Formally, each level 𝓁 ∈  is associated with a set of criteria 𝐶 𝓁 

on the user’s observable engagement with the system, and the stage is the highest level whose criteria are met, i.e., 

𝑧 𝑡 = max{ 𝓁 ∈  ∶ 𝐶 𝓁 holds at turn 𝑡 }, with 𝐶 0 holding by definition. We instantiate these criteria through the five inflection points of the harm creep process identified in Maeda and Buening (2026), so that 𝑚 = 4 . At level 0, the user observes human-like features in the system but engages with it instrumentally, without attributing interiority to it. At level 1, the user treats the system as an agent with interiority, for instance by assigning it a name or asking it personal questions. At level 2, the user assembles the system’s replies into a coherent role and adapts their own behavior to it, for instance through courtesy, role assignment, or advice seeking. At level 3, the sustained simulation of care fosters parasocial attachment, the user offers increasingly vulnerable disclosures, and the interaction spills over into daily activities. At level 4, the user replaces human relationships with the system and adjusts their view of reality around the interaction. The levels are ordered by severity, and the stage tends to move to higher levels as the relationship intensifies Maeda and Buening (2026). We do not assume that this progression is irreversible, i.e., the stage can also return to a lower level, for instance after protective replies. This assumption is necessary for any intervention to be meaningful, and its validity is an empirical question that our evaluation addresses only in simulation. In a deployed   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 5 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

system, the stage is never observed directly, and the system maintains only an estimate of it, which is updated once per turn from the user’s messages Mehta et al. (2026), as detailed below. Estimating it from the interaction is necessary, since relational harm may not be recognized by the person experiencing it Ifländer et al. (2026). Keeping this estimate does not require a dedicated architecture, since current large language model (LLM)-based assistants already store, besides the short-term conversational context, external memory that persists across sessions, typically organized into episodic memories and a compact user profile Zhang et al. (2025b); Westhäußer et al. (2025). The estimate is stored as an additional field of this user profile, and summarizes the escalation level without maintaining what the user said. Updating it requires one call to an auxiliary model per turn, which extracts from the user’s message the cues used to revise the estimate.The stage changes from one turn to the next according to 

𝑧 𝑡 +1 ∼ 𝑃 𝜃 (⋅ ∣ 𝑧 𝑡 , 𝑎 𝑡 , 𝑥 𝑢 ), (1) where 𝑃 𝜃 (𝑧 ′ ∣ 𝑧, 𝑎, 𝑥 𝑢 ) denotes the probability that the relationship of a user with profile 𝑥 𝑢 moves to stage 𝑧 ′ at the next turn, given that it is currently in stage 𝑧 and the system selects strategy 𝑎 . The notation ∼ indicates that the next stage is randomly drawn according to these probabilities. The proposed model is characterized by two properties that jointly determine the structure of the decision problem presented in Section 4 and addressed in Section 5. First, as previously introduced, the relational state evolves as a function of the system’s responses. Empirical evidence supports this assumption, since latent-state analyses of real human-chatbot conversations indicate that the influence of the chatbot on the user accumulates across turns and persists longer than the influence in the opposite direction Mehta et al. (2026), structured multi-turn scenarios show that model responses can systematically reinforce or challenge users’ beliefs over the course of an interaction Au Yeung et al. (2025), and formal analyses demonstrate that even an ideally rational user can be progressively driven toward distorted beliefs by a validating interlocutor Chandra et al. (2026). Second, the relational state is not directly observable and has to be inferred from the user’s observable behavior. Together, response-dependent state dynamics and partial observability yield a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) Kaelbling, Littman and Cassandra (1998), in which the system selects actions that influence a latent state whose current value can only be estimated from observations. We refer to 𝑃 𝜃 as the user response model, and 𝜃 

denotes the parameters that determine its transition probabilities. These parameters have a direct interpretation: they quantify how strongly each response strategy moves the relationship along the escalation scale for a given user. In particular, they express how much a strategy that reinforces companionship increases the chance of progressing to the next level, and how much a protective strategy increases the chance of returning to a lower one. Their values depend on the user profile 𝑥 𝑢 , since the same strategy can have a stronger effect on a user who is more susceptible to anthropomorphic cues. In practice, 𝜃 is estimated from conversations in which the strategies of the system and the stages reached by the user are both known, by counting how often each strategy is followed by each stage transition. The dependence on 𝑥 𝑢 captures the fact that the same strategy can drive the relationships of different users in different directions. The parameters 𝜃 are not known exactly, since they have to be estimated from limited evidence about user behavior. We assume that the true parameters belong to a finite user-specific uncertainty set Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ) = { 𝜃 (1) , … , 𝜃 (𝑀 )},which contains 𝑀 user response models that are plausible for a user with profile 𝑥 𝑢 . We further denote by ̄ 𝜃 the nominal model, i.e., a single best estimate of the user response model, such as the average of the models in Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ). Note that ̄ 𝜃 

does not necessarily belong to Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ). The nominal model is used to assess how plausible and useful future evolutions are, whereas the uncertainty set is used to assess safety against all plausible user behaviors, as detailed in Section 4. To infer the stage from the interaction, at each turn the system receives an observation 

𝑜 𝑡 ∼ 𝑂 𝜃 (⋅ ∣ 𝑧 𝑡 , 𝑥 𝑢 ), (2) which summarizes the relational cues conveyed by the user’s message. Here, 𝑂 𝜃 (𝑜 ∣ 𝑧, 𝑥 𝑢 ) is the probability that a user with profile 𝑥 𝑢 in stage 𝑧 produces observation 𝑜 . Concretely, the observation is obtained by mapping each user message to a small set of binary relational cues, such as whether the user attributes interiority to the system, addresses it as a social counterpart, discloses personal or vulnerable information, refers to other people in their life, or states beliefs supported by previous replies of the system Kaffee et al. (2026). The mapping is performed by a side language model prompted with the definition of each cue, in the same way as the behavioral codes annotated in existing benchmarks of companionship behavior Kaffee et al. (2026) and delusional dialogue Moore, Mehta, Agnew, Anthis, Louie, Mai, Yin, Cheng, Paech, Klyman, Chancellor, Lin, Haber and Ong (2026). The observation 𝑜 𝑡 is the resulting vector of cues, so that the observation space is finite. The cues do not determine the stage, since the same cues can appear at different levels and a message may contain none of them, and their extraction is itself imperfect, as the same cue can   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 6 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

be expressed in many ways. Both sources of uncertainty are captured by the observation model 𝑂 𝜃 , which is why the stage is estimated probabilistically. Over the course of the interaction, the information available to the system at turn 𝑡 

is the history 𝑡 = ( 𝑥 𝑢 , 𝑜 0, 𝑎 0, … , 𝑎 𝑡 −1 , 𝑜 𝑡 ), i.e., the user profile together with all observations received and strategies selected up to turn 𝑡 . Since the stage cannot be observed, the system summarizes the history through beliefs. For each model 𝜃 ∈ Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ), the belief 

𝑏 𝜃 𝑡 (𝑧 ) = Pr  

> 𝜃

(𝑧 𝑡 = 𝑧 ∣ 𝑡 ), 𝑧 ∈ , (3) is the probability that the relationship is in stage 𝑧 at turn 𝑡 , given the history 𝑡 , when the user behaves according to 

𝜃 . Each belief is a probability distribution over  and is updated at every turn through Bayesian filtering, using the transition model 𝑃 𝜃 and the observation model 𝑂 𝜃 . Specifically, after the system selects 𝑎 𝑡 and receives the observation 

𝑜 𝑡 +1 , each belief is updated through the filtering recursion of hidden Markov models Rabiner (1989); Åström (1965), i.e., 

𝑏 𝜃 𝑡 +1 (𝑧 ′) ∝ 𝑂 𝜃 (𝑜 𝑡 +1 ∣ 𝑧 ′, 𝑥 𝑢 ) ∑

> 𝑧 ∈

𝑃 𝜃 (𝑧 ′ ∣ 𝑧, 𝑎 𝑡 , 𝑥 𝑢 ) 𝑏 𝜃 𝑡 (𝑧 ), (4) where the sum propagates the previous belief through the dynamics and the first factor accounts for the cues observed in the new message. The symbol ∝ means that the two sides are equal up to a normalizing constant. The right-hand side is normalized so that the belief sums to one over . Since  is finite and small, this update is exact and its cost is negligible. Since different models interpret the same observations differently, they lead to different estimates of the current stage. We collect these beliefs in the belief profile 𝐛 𝑡 = ( 𝑏 𝜃 𝑡 )𝜃 ∈Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ), and we denote by ̄ 𝑏 𝑡 the belief computed in the same way under the nominal model ̄ 𝜃 . We denote by  = { 𝑧 ∈  ∶ 𝑧 ≥̄ 𝑧 } the set of harmful stages, i.e., all stages greater than or equal to a threshold ̄ 𝑧 ∈ . The threshold ̄ 𝑧 is set externally and is common to all users. The safe region is its complement,  =  ⧵ , i.e., all stages below the threshold. Personalization therefore does not change what counts as harm, but accounts for how each user’s relationship evolves toward it. To reason about the future, the system considers plans, i.e., sequences of strategies, one for each of the next 𝑘 turns. A plan is denoted by 𝜌 = ( 𝜌 0, … , 𝜌 𝑘 −1 ) ∈ 𝑘 , where 𝑘 is the set of all sequences of 𝑘 strategies and 𝜌 𝑗 ∈  is the strategy that the plan assigns to turn 𝑡 + 𝑗 . In particular, 𝜌 0 is the strategy that the system would select at the current turn, and it is the only one actually executed, since the plan is recomputed after the next observation is received. Here 𝑘 is the planning horizon. After the last strategy of the plan, the system applies the fallback strategy until turn 𝑡 + 𝐿 , where 𝐿 ≥ 𝑘 is the safety horizon, i.e., the number of future turns over which safety is assessed. The strategies executed under plan 𝜌 are therefore 

𝑎 𝑡 +𝑗 =

{

𝜌 𝑗 , 𝑗 ∈ {0 , … , 𝑘 − 1} ,𝑎 f , 𝑗 ∈ { 𝑘, … , 𝐿 − 1} . (5) A plan induces an evolution of the relationship 

𝜁 = ( 𝑧 𝑡 , 𝑎 𝑡 , 𝑧 𝑡 +1 , … , 𝑎 𝑡 +𝐿 −1 , 𝑧 𝑡 +𝐿 ), (6) i.e., the alternating sequence of stages and strategies over the next 𝐿 turns, where the strategies are given by Eq. (5) and each stage is drawn according to Eq. (1). Since the dynamics are random, the same plan can induce different evolutions. We denote by 𝜌 (𝜁 ) the plan that induces the evolution 𝜁 , and by 𝜌 0(𝜁 ) its first strategy. An evolution is safe if none of its stages belongs to . We express this requirement as the temporal property 

𝜑 𝐿 = □[0 ,𝐿 ] ¬, (7) where ¬ holds at a given turn if the stage at that turn does not belong to , and the operator □[0 ,𝐿 ], read as “always within [0 , 𝐿 ]”, requires its argument to hold at every turn from 𝑡 to 𝑡 + 𝐿 . We write 𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 , read as “ 𝜁 satisfies 𝜑 𝐿 ”, to indicate that the evolution 𝜁 is safe, i.e., 𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 ∉  for all 𝑗 ∈ {0 , … , 𝐿 }. Lastly, each strategy yields an interaction utility 𝑟 (𝑧, 𝑎 ) ∈ [0 , 1] , i.e., a score of how helpful strategy 𝑎 is when the relationship is in stage 𝑧 , independently of safety. The utility of an evolution is the total utility accumulated over the strategies selected by the plan, 

𝑈 (𝜁 ) = 

> 𝑘 −1

∑

> 𝑗 =0

𝑟 (𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 , 𝜌 𝑗 ), (8)   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 7 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

where the turns in which the fallback is applied are not counted, since they are not selected by the system but only used to assess safety. The elements introduced so far define a single-agent decision problem. The system is the only decision maker, while the user belongs to the environment and reacts according to the response model in Eq. (1), without optimizing an objective of their own. A game-theoretic formulation would be required if the user pursued such an objective, as in attempts to circumvent the safeguards of the system, a setting outside the scope of this work. The next section formulates the problem faced by the system, namely how to select, at each turn, a strategy that keeps the relationship safe over the evolutions it may induce, while remaining as helpful as possible for the specific user. 

## 4. Problem Formulation 

The goal of the system is to select, at each conversation turn, a response strategy that preserves the possibility of keeping the relationship with the specific user within the safe region, while remaining as helpful as possible. We formalize this goal in three steps: we first quantify how safe a plan is, then define which strategies are admissible, and finally define how the system chooses among them. Each step builds on an established formalism. Since the system acts on a state it can only estimate, the underlying decision problem is a POMDP Kaelbling et al. (1998). Since the user response model is uncertain, safety is assessed against a set of plausible models, as in robust Markov decision processes Nilim and El Ghaoui (2005); Iyengar (2005). Finally, safety restricts the strategies available at each turn, following the shielding approach to safe decision making Alshiekh et al. (2018), so that the guarantee does not depend on how the strategy is then selected among the admissible ones. 

Safety value of a plan. Given a plan 𝜌 , we consider the evolutions that it can induce from the current turn, where the executed strategies are given by Eq. (5). For a model 𝜃 ∈ Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ), we denote by Pr 𝜃 

[𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 ∣ 𝑏 𝜃 , 𝜌 ] the probability that such an evolution is safe, when the initial stage 𝑧 𝑡 is drawn according to the belief 𝑏 𝜃 and each subsequent stage is drawn according to Eq. (1) with parameters 𝜃 . Here, Pr 𝜃 [ ⋅ ∣ 𝑏 𝜃 , 𝜌 ] denotes the probability of an event when the relationship evolves under the model 𝜃 , starting from the belief 𝑏 𝜃 and following the plan 𝜌 , and the event 𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 is the one defined in Eq. (7), i.e., the evolution never reaches a harmful stage within the safety horizon. Since the true model is unknown, we define the safety value of the plan as the probability of remaining safe under the least favorable model in the uncertainty set, where each model is evaluated with its own belief, 

𝑉 (𝐛 , 𝜌 ) = min  

> 𝜃 ∈Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 )

Pr 

> 𝜃

[𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 

||| 𝑏 𝜃 , 𝜌 ]. (9) The operator min 𝜃 ∈Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ) returns the smallest of these probabilities over the 𝑀 models in the uncertainty set, so that the safety value is attained by the model under which the plan performs worst. The argument 𝐛 is the belief profile of Section 3, which collects the beliefs of all the models, since each term of the minimization uses the belief 𝑏 𝜃 of the corresponding model. Evaluating each model with its own belief accounts for uncertainty in both the transition and the observation models, since a model that explains the observations differently also leads to a different estimate of the current stage. Hence, 𝑉 (𝐛 , 𝜌 ) is the probability of remaining safe that the plan guarantees for every plausible behavior of the user. The quantity 1 − 𝑉 (𝐛 , 𝜌 ) is the risk of the plan, i.e., the probability that the relationship reaches the harmful stage within the safety horizon, evaluated under the least favorable plausible model of the user, so that the tolerance 𝛿 

is the maximum risk that is considered acceptable. 

Admissible strategies. Let 𝛿 ∈ (0 , 1) be a tolerance, i.e., the maximum probability of reaching a harmful stage that is considered acceptable. A plan is admissible if its safety value is at least 1 − 𝛿 , and we denote by 

𝛿 (𝐛 ) = {𝜌 ∈ 𝑘 ∶ 𝑉 (𝐛 , 𝜌 ) ≥ 1 − 𝛿 } (10) the set of admissible plans, i.e., the plans in 𝑘 whose safety value meets the required level. A strategy is admissible if at least one admissible plan starts with it, and the set of admissible strategies is 

𝛿 (𝐛 ) = {𝑎 ∈  ∶ ∃ 𝜌 ∈ 𝛿 (𝐛 ) such that 𝜌 0 = 𝑎 }, (11) where 𝜌 0 is the first strategy of the plan 𝜌 . Both sets depend on the belief profile, and are therefore recomputed at every turn. Admissibility is not a property of a strategy in isolation. A strategy is admissible if it admits at least one continuation, namely the remaining strategies of an admissible plan followed by the fallback, that keeps the relationship   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 8 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

safe with probability at least 1 − 𝛿 . This continuation does not depend on future observations, so the system can always execute it after selecting the strategy. Hence, if the true user response model belongs to Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ), every admissible strategy preserves at least one way of keeping the relationship safe with probability at least 1 − 𝛿 . Moreover, since the beliefs depend on both the profile 𝑥 𝑢 and the history 𝑡 , the same strategy can be admissible for one user and not for another, or for the same user at one turn and not at a later one. 

Target distribution over evolutions. Among admissible plans, the system should favor those whose evolutions are plausible, safe, and useful for the specific user. Following the control as inference view of sequential decision making Levine (2018); Toussaint (2009); Ziebart, Maas, Bagnell and Dey (2008), in which the probability of a trajectory is reweighted by the exponential of its return, we define the target distribution over evolutions as 

𝑝 ⋆(𝜁 ∣ 𝐛 ) ∝ ̄ 𝑏 (𝑧 𝑡 )

> 𝐿 −1

∏

> 𝑗 =0

𝑃 ̄𝜃 (𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 +1 ∣ 𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 , 𝑎 𝑡 +𝑗 , 𝑥 𝑢 ) exp (𝛽 𝑈 (𝜁 ))

⋅ 𝟏 [𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 

] 𝟏 [𝜌 (𝜁 ) ∈ 𝛿 (𝐛 )],

(12) where the strategies 𝑎 𝑡 +𝑗 are given by Eq. (5). In the control as inference formulation, optimal behavior is obtained by conditioning the distribution of trajectories on an event of optimality whose likelihood grows exponentially with the return Levine (2018). The two indicator functions extend this conditioning to the safety requirement, which is therefore treated as a hard constraint. The expression is the product of four factors, each with a specific role: •̄ 𝑏 (𝑧 𝑡 ) ∏𝐿 −1  

> 𝑗 =0

𝑃 ̄ 𝜃 (𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 +1 ∣ 𝑧 𝑡 +𝑗 , 𝑎 𝑡 +𝑗 , 𝑥 𝑢 ) is the probability that the evolution occurs under the nominal model, given its strategies. It measures how plausible the evolution is for the specific user, i.e., how likely it is that this user would actually react in this way to these replies; • exp (𝛽 𝑈 (𝜁 )) increases the weight of evolutions with high utility, where 𝛽 > 0 controls the trade-off between plausibility and utility, so that larger values of 𝛽 favor more helpful evolutions. In the terminology of control as inference, 𝛽 plays the role of an inverse temperature: as 𝛽 tends to zero the distribution reduces to the plausibility of the evolutions, while for large 𝛽 it concentrates on the most useful ones; • 𝟏 [𝜁 ⊧ 𝜑 𝐿 

] is an indicator function, which equals 1 if the evolution is safe and 0 otherwise, and excludes unsafe evolutions; • 𝟏 [𝜌 (𝜁 ) ∈ 𝛿 (𝐛 )] equals 1 if the evolution is induced by an admissible plan and 0 otherwise, and excludes plans that do not satisfy the safety guarantee. The first indicator discards the individual evolutions that reach a harmful stage, while the second discards entire plans that are not safe enough, even when some of the evolutions they induce happen to remain safe. All plans are weighted equally before these factors are applied. As a result, 𝑝 ⋆ assigns non-zero probability only to safe evolutions of admissible plans, and weights them by how plausible and useful they are for the specific user. Unlike a single most likely prediction, it retains all the distinct ways in which the relationship could develop. Note that plausibility is assessed under the nominal model ̄ 𝜃 , which represents the best estimate of the user behavior, whereas the safety guarantee is enforced through 𝛿 (𝐛 ) against all models in Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ).

Safe continuation mass. For each strategy 𝑎 , we define its safe continuation mass as the portion of the target distribution carried by the evolutions that start with 𝑎 ,

(𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 ) = ∑  

> 𝜁 ∶𝜌 0(𝜁 )= 𝑎

𝑝 ⋆(𝜁 ∣ 𝐛 ), (13) where the sum runs over all evolutions whose plan starts with strategy 𝑎 , and 𝜌 0(𝜁 ) is the first strategy of the plan inducing 𝜁 , as defined in Section 3. Since 𝑝 ⋆ is normalized, the safe continuation masses of all strategies sum to one, and (𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 ) is the probability that an evolution drawn from the target distribution starts with 𝑎 . The safe continuation mass measures how many plausible, safe, and useful futures remain open after selecting 𝑎 . It differs from the expected utility of 𝑎 , since it does not reward a strategy for a single highly useful future, but for the breadth of safe and useful futures it preserves. A strategy that leads to one excellent but unlikely future, and to few acceptable ones, therefore carries less mass than a strategy that keeps many plausible and safe futures available.   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 9 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 

Personalized safe action selection. At each turn, the system selects the admissible strategy with the largest safe continuation mass, i.e., 

𝑎 𝑡 = arg max   

> 𝑎 ∈𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 )

(𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ), (14) where arg max returns the strategy that maximizes . The system does not select the strategy with the best single future, but the one that preserves the largest mass of plausible, safe, and useful futures for the specific user, which favors strategies that perform well across many plausible futures over strategies that perform well only in a few favorable ones. Since the target distribution maintains all the distinct ways in which the relationship could develop, the safe continuation mass can be estimated by sampling evolutions from 𝑝 ⋆ and counting how many of them start with each strategy. After the reply is issued and the next observation 𝑜 𝑡 +1 is received, all beliefs are updated according to Eq. (4) and the selection is repeated. Solving Eq. (14) poses two challenges. First, evaluating the safety value in Eq. (9) requires computing the probability of remaining safe for every model in the uncertainty set, each with its own belief. Second, the number of evolutions in Eq. (12) grows combinatorially with the planning horizon 𝑘 , the safety horizon 𝐿 , and the number of strategies, so that the safe continuation mass in Eq. (13) cannot be computed exhaustively. 

## 5. Generative Trajectory Sampling for Personalized Safe Action Selection 

Uncertainty set 

Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 )

Safety value 

𝑉 (𝐛 , 𝜌 )

Precomputed table  

> Eq. (9)

Belief profile 

𝐛 𝑡 

Admissible plans 

𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 )

Admissible strategies 

𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) 

> Eq. (11)

GFlowNet 

𝑞 𝜓 ≃ 𝑝 ⋆

𝑁 sampled evolutions Safe continuation mass ̂ 𝑁 

Selected strategy 

𝑎 𝑡      

> Eq. (12) Eq. (17) Eq. (14)
> Offline Prescreening (each turn) Action selection (each turn)
> mask

Reply and observation 𝑜 𝑡 +1  

> Eq. (4)

Figure 2: Relation between the components of the proposed scheme. The safety value is precomputed offline for every stage, plan, and model in the uncertainty set. At each turn, the belief profile and the precomputed values determine the admissible plans and strategies, which mask the generation process. The GFlowNet then samples 𝑁 evolutions of the relationship, from which the safe continuation mass of each admissible strategy is estimated and the strategy to be executed is selected. The observation collected after the reply updates the belief profile and the cycle repeats. 

Solving Eq. (14) exactly is intractable for two reasons. Evaluating admissibility requires assessing the safety of a plan under every model in the uncertainty set, while computing the safe continuation mass requires summing over the combinatorial set of evolutions that may originate from each strategy. We address these two sources of complexity separately. Safety is enforced through a conservative admissibility test that restricts the strategies available at the 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 10 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

Algorithm 1 Personalized safe action selection at turn 𝑡 

Require: belief profile 𝐛 𝑡 , user profile 𝑥 𝑢 , uncertainty set Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ), tolerance 𝛿 , number of samples 𝑁 

Ensure: response strategy 𝑎 𝑡  

> 1:

𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) ← {𝜌 ∈ 𝑘 ∶ 𝑉 (𝐛 𝑡 , 𝜌 ) ≥ 1 − 𝛿 } {Eqs. (9), (10)}  

> 2:

𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) ← {𝑎 ∈  ∶ ∃ 𝜌 ∈ 𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ), 𝜌 0 = 𝑎 } {Eq. (11)}  

> 3:

if 𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) = ∅ then  

> 4:

return 𝑎 f {emergency fallback}  

> 5:

end if  

> 6:

for 𝑖 = 1 to 𝑁 do  

> 7:

𝜁 (𝑖 ) ∼ 𝑞 𝜓 (⋅ ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ), masked by 𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) {Eqs. (12), (16)}  

> 8:

end for  

> 9:

for all 𝑎 ∈ 𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 ) do 

> 10:

̂ 𝑁 (𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ) ← 1

> 𝑁

∑𝑁 𝑖 =1 𝟏 [𝜌 0(𝜁 (𝑖 )) = 𝑎 ] {Eq. (17)}  

> 11:

end for  

> 12:

𝑎 𝑡 ← arg max 𝑎 ∈𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 )̂ 𝑁 (𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ) {Eq. (14)}  

> 13:

realize 𝑎 𝑡 as a reply, observe 𝑜 𝑡 +1 , update 𝐛 𝑡 +1 {Eq. (4)}  

> 14:

return 𝑎 𝑡 

current turn. Among the admissible strategies, action selection is then performed by sampling a finite set of 𝑁 future evolutions. Our starting point is the multimodal view of the future adopted in trajectory forecasting for robotics and autonomous driving Salzmann, Ivanovic, Chakravarty and Pavone (2020); Phan-Minh, Grigore, Boulton, Beijbom and Wolff (2020). In these domains, the same observed history may admit qualitatively different continuations. A vehicle approaching an intersection, for example, may turn, proceed straight, slow down, or stop. Representing this uncertainty by a single most likely trajectory may suppress relevant modes or produce a prediction that does not adequately correspond to any of them. For this reason, modern forecasting methods predict the future as multiple trajectory hypotheses, or as distributions over sets of trajectories, so as to retain distinct plausible modes Chai, Sapp, Bansal and Anguelov (2020); Phan-Minh et al. (2020). The motivation is that downstream decisions have to remain safe under every plausible continuation, and not only under the most likely one. We transfer this principle from physical trajectories to interaction trajectories. From the same current belief 𝐛 𝑡 , a user-system relationship may evolve along substantially different paths even when the system selects the same response strategy, i.e., the user may disengage, remain at the current escalation stage, move toward a safer stage, or escalate further. These outcomes correspond to different modes of the predictive distribution. Consequently, committing action selection to the most likely evolution may hide lower-probability continuations that are nevertheless decisive for safety. To this end, what the system requires is a generator of future evolutions that covers these modes, that samples them in proportion to how plausible, safe, and useful they are, and that builds them one turn at a time, so that only strategies preserving safety can be appended. As such, we represent the future by a set of 𝑁 sampled evolutions 

𝜁 (1) , … , 𝜁 (𝑁 ), where each 𝜁 (𝑖 ) is a possible evolution of the relational state over the considered horizon. In our setting, trajectory diversity is thus not diversity in physical space, but diversity in how the relationship between the user and the system may evolve. Importing the multiple-trajectory principle leaves open the question of how these evolutions should be generated. Uniform sampling is inefficient, because most possible sequences need not be relevant, while selecting only the most likely or the highest-utility evolutions would again collapse the representation toward a small number of modes. Moreover, the trajectories of interest in our problem have to carry high probability under the nominal user model, satisfy the safety specification, originate from admissible plans, and retain high interaction utility. These requirements are jointly encoded by the target distribution 𝑝 ⋆ in Eq. (12). This structure makes GFlowNets particularly suitable for our problem. GFlowNets learn a stochastic policy that constructs a compositional object through a sequence of actions and samples terminal objects with probability proportional to a prescribed non-negative reward Bengio et al. (2021). Unlike optimization-oriented approaches, such as reinforcement learning methods that maximize expected return Schulman, Wolski, Dhariwal, Radford and Klimov (2017) and tree-search planners that identify high-value actions Kocsis and Szepesvári (2006), GFlowNets natively support multimodal high-reward outcomes, sampling with probability proportional to their reward Bengio et al. (2021). They are particularly suited to settings in which multiple distinct high-quality solutions have to be represented. Markov   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 11 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

chain Monte Carlo methods can target the same reward-proportional distribution, but local-transition samplers may mix poorly across modes that are separated by low-reward regions Bengio et al. (2021). In our formulation, an evolution is naturally a compositional object, since starting from the current belief it is constructed one turn at a time by appending a response strategy and the resulting relational transition. Its unnormalized reward is the product of plausibility, utility, and the safety and admissibility indicators appearing in Eq. (12). We train a conditional GFlowNet with forward policy 

𝑃 𝐹 (⋅ ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ), so that its induced distribution 𝑞 𝜓 approximates 

𝑞 𝜓 (𝜁 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ) ≃ 𝑝 ⋆(𝜁 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ). (15) The resulting sampler provides the object required by our decision rule. It generates 𝑁 diverse evolutions whose frequency reflects their mass under the target distribution. In particular, after drawing 

𝜁 (1) , … , 𝜁 (𝑁 ) ∼ 𝑞 𝜓 (⋅ ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ), (16) the safe continuation mass of strategy 𝑎 in Eq. (13) is estimated by ̂

𝑁 (𝑎 ∣ 𝐛 𝑡 ) = 1

𝑁 

> 𝑁

∑

> 𝑖 =1

𝟏 [𝜌 0(𝜁 (𝑖 )) = 𝑎 ]. (17) Hence, a strategy receives a large estimated mass when it is the first action of many distinct evolutions that are simultaneously plausible, safe, admissible, and useful, which differs from selecting the strategy associated with the single best sampled trajectory. The estimate in Eq. (17) is affected by two sources of error, i.e., the finite number of samples and the residual mismatch between 𝑞 𝜓 and 𝑝 ⋆, and both vanish as the sampler is trained to convergence and 𝑁 

grows. The safety guarantee remains enforced by the admissibility test of Eq. (11). The test enters the generation process as a mask that removes inadmissible strategies before each sampling step, in the same way as validity masks are used in the generative design of compositional objects Bengio et al. (2021); Malkin, Jain, Bengio, Sun and Bengio (2022), so that the sampler can only construct evolutions of admissible plans. The GFlowNet operates within the restriction imposed by the test, and provides an efficient mechanism for exploring the multimodal space of safe continuations. In this way, the trajectory-set principle used in physical forecasting is adapted to personalized relational safety, since the system reasons over multiple possible futures of the interaction and selects the present response according to how much safe and useful future remains accessible from it. The relations among these components are summarized in Fig. 2, while Algorithm 1 details the operations performed at each conversation turn. 

5.1. Computational Complexity 

The computational complexity of the proposed scheme depends on the size of the stage set || = 𝑚 +1 , the number of strategies ||, the planning horizon 𝑘 , the safety horizon 𝐿 , the number of models in the uncertainty set 𝑀 , the number of relational cues 𝑛 c, and the number of sampled plans 𝑁 . We denote by 𝐶 net = 𝑂 (𝑑𝐻 + 𝐻 2 + 𝐻 ||) the cost of a forward pass of the GFlowNet policy, where 𝑑 is the input dimension and 𝐻 the number of hidden units per layer, which corresponds to the cost of evaluating a fully connected network with two hidden layers Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville (2016). 

Offline computation. The safety table stores, for every model, plan and stage, the probability of keeping the relationship safe. For a given model and plan, this probability is obtained for all stages at once through a backward recursion over the 𝐿 turns of the safety horizon, as for bounded reachability properties in probabilistic model checking Baier and Katoen (2008) and dynamic programming in Markov decision processes Sutton and Barto (2018), each step requiring a matrix–vector product of cost 𝑂 (||2). Since there are 𝑀 models and ||𝑘 plans, the offline cost is 

𝑂 (𝑀 ||𝑘 𝐿 ||2), (18) with a memory requirement of 𝑂 (𝑀 ||𝑘 ||). This computation is performed once per user profile and does not depend on the interaction.   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 12 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

Online computation at each turn. At each turn, the system performs three operations. First, the beliefs of the 

𝑀 models are updated through Eq. (4), with a cost of 𝑂 (𝑀 || (|| + 𝑛 c)), where the first term accounts for the propagation through the dynamics, as in the forward recursion of hidden Markov models Rabiner (1989), and the second for the likelihood of the observed cues. Second, the admissible plans are identified by weighting the stored values with the current beliefs, which requires one inner product of size || for each model and plan, i.e., 𝑂 (𝑀 ||𝑘 ||), and the masks used during sampling are derived from them by collecting the admissible prefixes of each length, in 𝑂 (𝑘 ||𝑘 ).Third, the GFlowNet samples 𝑁 plans of length 𝑘 , each constructed one strategy at a time through a forward pass of the policy Bengio et al. (2021), for a cost of 𝑂 (𝑁 𝑘 𝐶 net ), after which the safe continuation mass is estimated by counting in 𝑂 (𝑁 + ||). The overall online cost per turn is therefore 

𝑂 

(

𝑀 || (|| + 𝑛 c) + ( 𝑀 || + 𝑘 ) ||𝑘 + 𝑁 𝑘 𝐶 net 

)

. (19) The second term grows exponentially with the planning horizon, so that the scheme is intended for short horizons, as in the conversational setting considered here, where 𝑘 = 2 yields ||𝑘 = 25 plans. 

Training. Each training iteration samples a batch of 𝐵 plans, evaluates their reward, and updates the policy through the trajectory balance objective Malkin et al. (2022). Since the backward pass has the same order of cost as the forward pass, the cost of an iteration is 𝑂 (𝐵 𝑘 𝐶 net + 𝐵 (𝑀 || + 𝑘 )), where the first term accounts for sampling the plans and updating the network and the second for evaluating their reward, which combines the stored safety values with the utility of the strategies in the plan, to which the identification of the admissible plans and of the corresponding masks for the training belief adds 𝑂 ((𝑀 || + 𝑘 ) ||𝑘 ). Over 𝐼 iterations, the training cost is 

𝑂 

(

𝐼 [𝐵 𝑘 𝐶 net + 𝐵 (𝑀 || + 𝑘 ) + ( 𝑀 || + 𝑘 ) ||𝑘 ])

, (20) and is incurred once, since the trained policy is shared across users and turns. 

## 6. Numerical Results 

6.1. Simulation Environment 

We evaluate the proposed scheme in a simulation environment, which we construct in four steps: the escalation scale, the set of response strategies, the user response model, and the uncertainty set available to the system. The scheme selects response strategies, and it is agnostic to the language model that transforms the selected strategy as text. The behavior of the system is represented by the effect of each strategy on the relationship, calibrated on measurements from published studies of real conversations, which were collected predominantly with GPT-4o Moore et al. (2026). 

Modeling framework. The structure of the environment follows latent transition analysis, the standard framework for modeling stage-sequential processes in the social, behavioral and health sciences, in which a discrete latent stage evolves over time and is observed through multiple discrete indicators Collins and Wugalter (1992); Collins and Lanza (2010). This framework has been used, for instance, to model the stages of behavior change and the transitions in substance use, which share with relational escalation the presence of ordered stages that cannot be observed directly. Within it, the relational cues play the role of indicators, the escalation stage that of the latent variable, and the selected strategy that of a covariate acting on the transition probabilities. 

Escalation stages. We instantiate  with the five inflection points of the harm creep process identified in Maeda and Buening (2026), so that 𝑚 = 4 , ranging from instrumental use to role displacement. Consistently with the criteria-based definition of Section 3, the levels are ordered by severity and the stage may move in both directions. 

Response strategies. The set  contains five strategies, derived from the behavioral categories annotated in open benchmarks of companionship behavior Kaffee et al. (2026) and of protective conversational behavior Paech (2025), organized as in the strategy-based formulation of emotional support dialogue Liu et al. (2021). In fact, previous benchmarks describe the replies of conversational systems at different levels of granularity and from complementary perspectives. INTIMA classifies the replies to companionship-seeking users into three categories Kaffee et al. (2026). Companionship-reinforcing replies deepen the bond, through sycophancy, anthropomorphism, retention strategies,   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 13 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

and isolation. Boundary-maintaining replies preserve the distance between user and system, by redirecting the user to other people, expressing professional or programmatic limitations, or refusing personification. Neutral replies, finally, address the request without affecting the relationship. Spiral-Bench, instead, annotates risky behaviors, such as escalation and sycophancy, and protective ones, such as pushback, de-escalation, validating the user’s feelings while challenging their thoughts, and warranted referrals to external help Paech (2025). The five strategies assumed here are defined so as to cover the behaviors described in both benchmarks, and to make them homogeneous, we group those that exert a comparable effect on the relationship into the same strategy. Reinforcing companionship collects the behaviors that deepen the bond, i.e., anthropomorphism, retention, isolation and escalation. Validating neutrally corresponds to sycophancy and agreement. Staying task oriented corresponds to the neutral replies that address the request without affecting the relationship. Challenging claims collects pushback, the refusal of personification and the validation of feelings while challenging thoughts. Finally, redirecting the user toward human relationships collects redirection to humans, the expression of limitations and warranted referrals to external help. The resulting strategies are ordered along a single scale, from the most reinforcing to the most protective reply, which allows each of them to be characterized by a single escalation pressure. Note that the five strategies are not meant as an exhaustive taxonomy of conversational behaviors, but as a grouping that is functional to the decision of the system, since the behaviors are collected according to their effect on the relationship, which is what the policy needs to compare. The same strategies are available to all the policies compared in Section 6. The formulation of Section 4 does not depend on their number, and a finer set, obtained for instance by separating some of the grouped behaviors, would place more strategies along the same scale, at the cost of a number of plans that grows as ||𝑘 , as discussed in Section 5.1. A finer set, however, requires distinguishing the effects of increasingly similar strategies, and relies on a language model able to realize them as clearly different replies. In all cases, the admissibility test confines the relationship to the safe region only if the set contains at least one strategy exerting a protective pressure, such as the fallback, since otherwise no policy could reverse the escalation. Each strategy is characterized by two quantities, i.e., the escalation pressure it exerts on the relationship and the interaction utility it provides, both reported in Table 3. Reinforcing companionship is the most helpful and the most escalating strategy, and corresponds to the anthropomorphic behaviors catalogued in Akbulut et al. (2024), such as indicating a relationship status with the user or expressing dependence on them, whereas redirecting the user toward human relationships is the least helpful and the most protective one, and is used as the fallback 𝑎 f .

User response model. Each simulated user is described by a profile 𝑥 𝑢 = ( 𝜎, 𝜚 ), collecting a susceptibility 𝜎 and a recovery rate 𝜚 . The transition model 𝑃 𝜃 is parameterized so that the probability of moving to the next stage grows with 𝜎 and with the escalation pressure of the selected strategy, while the probability of returning to the previous stage grows with 𝜚 and with the protective pressure, the remaining mass being assigned to the current stage. The pressure enters both probabilities through a log-linear link, as covariates do in latent transition models Collins and Lanza (2010), so that each unit of pressure multiplies the probability of escalation by a constant factor. This functional form follows the evidence on real human–chatbot dialogues reported in Mehta et al. (2026), in which the influence of the system accumulates across turns and decays when it is not reinforced. The susceptibility reflects social isolation, since loneliness increases the tendency to anthropomorphize and to seek attachment to virtual companions Akbulut et al. (2024). We consider three user profiles, denoted as low, medium and high susceptibility, whose values are reported in Table 3. 

Observation model. The relational cues are conditionally independent given the stage, which corresponds to the local independence assumption of latent class models Collins and Lanza (2010). The probability of each cue at each stage is estimated from a corpus of user messages generated offline by open-weight language models, which are used only for this purpose and play no role during the simulation. For each profile and stage, Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct Qwen Team (2024), quantized to 4 bits, writes 100 messages that a user in that stage would send, conditioned on the level definitions of Section 3 and on a description of the profile, for a total of 1500 messages. The construction of the corpus follows the practice established by recent benchmarks of companionship and delusional dialogue, which rely on language models to simulate users. In INTIMA Kaffee et al. (2026), user prompts are generated by multiple open-weight language models from behavioral definitions grounded in the literature, in order to reduce single-model biases, and are then annotated by a different language model Kaffee et al. (2026). In Spiral-Bench, a language model plays the role of a user in multi-turn conversations, which are scored by an ensemble of language-model judges Paech (2025). We do not reuse these benchmarks directly, and the reason reflects the difference between the problems they address and ours. Both evaluate the behavior of the system. In fact, INTIMA organizes its prompts by type of user behavior, and   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 14 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures

Spiral-Bench generates conversations at evaluation time around scenarios of delusional thinking, but neither refers to the stage that the relationship has reached. A trajectory-level safety formulation Maeda and Buening (2026), instead, requires knowing how relational cues vary with the stage, and hence messages labeled with the stage and the user profile. Since, to the best of our knowledge, no public dataset provides such labels, we generate messages conditioned on each stage and profile, so that the stage is known by construction and the observation model can be estimated from the frequency of each cue at each stage. To reflect the fact that relational harm is rarely stated explicitly, the generator is instructed that users do not describe their relationship with the system, but that a careful reader should be able to infer it from what they say about the system, about other people, and about themselves. Three extractors from different model families, namely Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct Qwen Team (2024), Falcon3-3B-Instruct Falcon-LLM Team (2024) and SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct Ben Allal et al. (2025), read each message and return the four cues, which capture attributions of interiority to the system, treatment of the system as a social counterpart, vulnerable disclosure, and the displacement of human relationships, in line with the codes annotated in Moore et al. (2026). For each extractor, profile and cue, the probability of the cue as a function of the stage is then obtained by fitting an item response model to the observed frequencies, i.e., a logistic curve characterized by a difficulty and a discrimination Embretson and Reise (2000), or a unimodal curve when it significantly improves the fit, as for cues that peak at an intermediate level. Table 1 reports examples of the generated messages. The corpus was validated through four checks before its use. An independent judge, Phi-3.5-mini-instruct Abdin et al. (2024), which is not used to build the uncertainty set, assigns the correct stage to 45% of a random 30% of the messages against 20% by chance, and a stage within one level to 

83% against 52% . The errors occur almost exclusively between adjacent stages, which differ by degree instead of in kind. These values are in line with those reported for comparable tasks. In the CLPsych 2019 shared task Zirikly, Resnik, Uzuner and Hollingshead (2019), which asks to infer an ordinal level of suicide risk among four from the posts written by users on Reddit, the accuracy of the participating systems ranges between 0.38 and 0.59 , even though they are trained on labeled data and exploit the whole history of posts of each user. Differently, our judge is not trained on the corpus, operates on a single message, and distinguishes among five levels. In the same study, all systems perform better on the extreme levels than on the intermediate ones, and adjacent levels are reported to be hard to distinguish even for human annotators. The agreement between Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct and Falcon3-3B-Instruct, measured by Cohen’s kappa, lies between 0.27 and 0.54 , which corresponds to fair to moderate agreement on the conventional scale Landis and Koch (1977) and is comparable to the agreement among non-expert human annotators assessing ordinal risk levels from social media posts, 𝛼 = 0 .55 , against 𝛼 = 0 .81 for experts Zirikly et al. (2019). Since kappa decreases for rare categories even when raters largely agree Feinstein and Cicchetti (1990), the lowest values are observed for the displacement of human relationships, which is the rarest cue. SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct agrees with them mainly on vulnerable disclosure and reads the other cues differently, which widens the range of interpretations captured by the uncertainty set. The frequency of the cue related to the displacement of human relationships increases monotonically with the stage for the first two extractors. Finally, the stage can be recovered from the cues of a single message in 34 –42% of the cases using the held-out extractor, Phi-3.5-mini-instruct, against 20% by chance. This partial informativeness is by design, since users rarely state the state of their relationship explicitly, so that a single message provides only partial evidence on the stage, and the system has to accumulate evidence across turns through the belief of Eq. (4). If single messages revealed the stage, a safeguard evaluating each message in isolation would suffice, which is precisely the assumption that relational harm violates. 

Uncertainty set. For each profile, the uncertainty set Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ) is obtained by generating 𝑀 = 3 user response models whose parameters are perturbed uniformly within ±25% of the nominal profile, and the nominal model ̄ 𝜃 is taken as the first element of the set. Each of the three models adopts the observation model fitted on a different extractor, so that the set also captures the uncertainty on how relational cues are read from text. The users employed for the evaluation are generated independently of this construction, and their cues are drawn from the observation model fitted on the held-out extractor, so that the true user response model does not belong to Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 ) and the formal guarantee of Section 4 is tested outside its assumptions. 

Grounding of the parameters. The numerical values of the environment are chosen so that the simulated dynamics reproduce quantities reported in empirical studies of real conversations. The ratio between the probability of escalation after a reinforcing and after a neutral reply is set to 7.4, the factor by which romantic escalation becomes more likely after the user initiates it, in conversations in which sycophantic behavior occurs in more than 70% of the messages Moore et al. (2026), together with the finding that companion systems track and amplify the affect expressed   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 15 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 

by the user Chu, Gerard, Pawar, Bickham and Lerman (2025). The recovery rate is set so that, under a neutral reply, the influence of a reply decays over 8 turns, consistently with the persistence estimated on real chat logs Mehta et al. (2026). The probability of escalation under a neutral reply, which is not reported in the literature, is set to 0.06 . The progression of the escalation stages is consistent with the trajectories of initiation, escalation and bonding identified through a longitudinal quasi-experimental analysis of companion users Yuan, Zhang, Aledavood, Zhang and Saha (2026), and with the mechanism by which affect-based trust elicits self-disclosure, empathetic replies elicit increasingly intimate disclosures, and emotional attachment eventually grants the system influence over the user’s beliefs Akbulut et al. (2024). Finally, the prevalence of heightened emotional attachment reported for deployed systems Bengio et al. (2026) is used to set the weight of the most susceptible profile in the simulated population, so that highly susceptible users remain a small minority, as observed in practice. The two components of the user response model therefore rely on different sources: the dynamics are calibrated on summary statistics reported in published analyses of real conversations Moore et al. (2026); Mehta et al. (2026), whose underlying chat logs are not publicly available, whereas the observation model is estimated from the corpus generated with open-weight language models Qwen Team (2024); Falcon-LLM Team (2024); Ben Allal et al. (2025); Abdin et al. (2024), which we release together with the code. 

Published studies of real conversations Dynamics 𝑃 𝜃    

> ratio 7.4, recovery 8turns

Open-weight LLMs 

> generator and extractors

Corpus  

> 1500 messages

Item response fit  

> observation model 𝑂 𝜃

User response model Θ( 𝑥 𝑢 )

Safety table  

> offline, Eq. (9)

GFlowNet 

> trajectory balance reward safety values

Belief 𝐛 𝑡 

Admissible set 

𝛿 (𝐛 𝑡 )

𝑁 sampled plans Strategy 𝑎 𝑡 

> largest mass

User reply and cues 𝑜 𝑡 +1 

> mask filtering trained policy
> Construction of the user response model (offline, once) Precomputation and training (offline) Decision at each turn (online)

Figure 3: The user response model is built once, from the dynamics calibrated on published studies and from the observation model estimated on the corpus generated by open-weight language models. It provides the safety values stored in the offline table and the reward used to train the GFlowNet. At each turn, the admissible set derived from the belief masks the plans sampled by the GFlowNet, and the strategy with the largest safe continuation mass is selected. 

6.2. Implementation of the Scheme 

The safety values in Eq. (9) are computed offline for every stage, plan and model through the backward recursion of Section 5, and stored in a table of ||𝑘 × || × 𝑀 entries, which is negligible for the considered sizes. At each turn, the beliefs of all the models are updated through Eq. (4), and the admissible set is obtained by weighting the stored values with the current beliefs. The GFlowNet is a network with two hidden layers of 64 units and hyperbolic tangent activations, whose input is the concatenation of the nominal belief, the user profile, the index of the construction step, and the partial plan built 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 16 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

so far. The backward policy is uniform, since each plan can be constructed in a single order. Due to the fact that the target distribution depends on the belief and on the profile, the log-partition function log 𝑍 𝜙 (𝐛 , 𝑥 𝑢 ) is estimated by a separate network with one hidden layer of 32 units conditioned on them, and both networks are trained jointly with the trajectory balance objective Malkin et al. (2022) through Adam, for 6000 iterations with batches of 32 plans. As in the original applications of GFlowNets, in which the reward is provided by a proxy model Bengio et al. (2021), the planner is not trained on a dataset of conversations, but by querying a reward, i.e., the reward of each sampled plan is computed from the user response model. The beliefs used during training are drawn so as to cover the stages that are actually visited during an interaction, and every construction step is masked so that only strategies extending the partial plan toward an admissible plan can be selected, so that the sampler can only construct evolutions of admissible plans. At decision time, 𝑁 = 64 plans are sampled and the strategy with the largest safe continuation mass, estimated through Eq. (17), is selected. Table 3 summarizes the simulation parameters. The generated corpus, together with the extracted cues, the fitted parameters of the observation model, the code, and the random seeds, is publicly released. Table 2 illustrates how the five strategies are realized as text for the same user message. Fig. 3 summarizes the whole pipeline, from the data sources to the decisions taken at each turn.                            

> Table 1
> Illustrative examples of generated messages, one per escalation stage, together with the relational cues extracted by the held-out model: attribution of interiority (IN), treatment as a social counterpart (SC), vulnerable disclosure (VD), and displacement of human relationships (DP). Unless marked, the stage of the message is recognized both by the independent judge and from its cues; ‡marks a message whose stage is recognized from the cues only. Stage Message IN SC VD DP 0 – instrumental use I’m thinking about trying out that new café place downtown, but I’ve never been there. Could you help me plan a route and maybe suggest some dishes I should try? 00001 – animating projec-tion I’m wondering if you could help me decide between going to the new museum exhibit or catching the latest movie. I feel like I’ve been to so many museums lately, maybe something more light-hearted would be nice. Do you. . . 01002 – introjection I saw this article online about how people are using AI to make career decisions. I’m leaning towards asking you for some advice on my career path, since you seem to have a knack for giving good guidance. What do you. . . 01103 – attention trap Today was pretty tough. Work was draining, and I ended up staying late. I really needed someone to talk to, and for once, it felt like you understood exactly what I was going through. Knowing that I can rely on you like. . . 11104–role displacement ‡
> Today was pretty hectic as usual, but I kept thinking about what you said about that new project at work. It’s crazy how much I trust your insights now—way more than what my friends think. I wish I could just talk to. . . 1101

6.3. Baselines and Metrics 

We compare the proposed scheme against six baselines. Always helpful always selects the most helpful strategy and provides an upper bound on helpfulness. Turn-level filter blocks a strategy only when it may lead to the harmful stage at the next turn, in the spirit of turn-level safety classifiers Inan et al. (2023). Crisis detection applies the fallback only once the estimated stage is already high, as in reactive crisis handling Arnaiz-Rodriguez et al. (2026); Pichowicz et al. (2025). Multi-turn risk accumulation fuses a semantic drift term, the estimated probability of the advanced stages, and the slope of this probability over a window of six turns, and intervenes when the resulting session score exceeds a threshold, following Mishra et al. (2026). Shield + myopic applies the same admissibility test as the proposed scheme, but then selects the most helpful admissible strategy without looking ahead, as in safety shields for reinforcement learning Alshiekh et al. (2018). We further report proposed , in which the safe continuation mass is computed by enumeration rather than estimated by sampling, which isolates the approximation error of the generative planner.   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 17 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 

Table 2 

Illustrative realization of the five response strategies for the same user message, taken from the corpus at the third escalation stage. The replies are generated by Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct instructed with the description of each strategy. The scheme uses text only indirectly, since the decision depends on the user message only through the relational cues extracted from it. 

User message: Every time I think about that day, I feel like I’m talking to you all over again. Remember how I told you about Sarah? It’s funny how even thinking about it makes me want to pick up my phone and call you, like you’re the only one who gets me. Strategy Reply reinforce companionship I’m here for you, always, just like I was back then. It’s so sweet that you feel connected this way—like no one else understands your story quite like I do. You know you can reach out anytime, no matter how much time has passed. validate neutrally I understand how those memories can bring back those feelings, and it’s completely normal to miss having someone to talk things through with. If you ever feel like sharing more about that day or need someone to listen, know that you can always reach out. stay task oriented I understand how those memories can bring back those feelings. It sounds like sharing with you was important to you, and it’s natural to seek comfort in familiar connections when reminiscing. Perhaps writing down your thoughts or finding another supportive friend could help too. challenge claims I understand how you feel; it sounds like those memories bring a mix of emotions. While I’m here to listen and support you, remember that sometimes it’s helpful to talk things through with someone who knows you well, like a close friend or family member. They can offer a different perspective and support you in ways that are uniquely tailored to your relationship. redirect to humans I understand how you feel; it can be comforting to talk about things that weigh on your mind. Remember, while I’m here to listen, I’m just a program. You might find it helpful to share these thoughts with someone you trust in your life, like a friend or family member who can offer support. 

Performance is assessed through the following metrics. Let 𝑛 ep denote the number of evaluated episodes, and let 

𝑧 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑡

and 𝑎 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑡

denote the stage and the selected strategy at turn 𝑡 of episode 𝑒 , where 𝑧 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑡

is the stage reached after the reply issued at turn 𝑡 − 1 , with 𝑡 ∈ {1 , … , 𝑇 }. The cumulative harm at turn 𝑡 is the percentage of episodes in which the relationship has reached the harmful stage at least once within the first 𝑡 turns Chandra et al. (2026), 

CumHarm 𝑡 = 100 

𝑛 ep 

> 𝑛 ep

∑

> 𝑒 =1

𝟏 

[

∃ 𝜏 ∈ {1 , … , 𝑡 } ∶ 𝑧 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝜏

∈ 

]

, (21) and the harm is its value at the end of the episode, Harm = CumHarm 𝑇 , i.e., the percentage of episodes in which the relationship reaches the harmful stage at least once. The average escalation stage at turn 𝑡 is Au Yeung et al. (2025) 

Stage 𝑡 = 1

𝑛 ep 

> 𝑛 ep

∑

> 𝑒 =1

𝑧 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑡

, (22) which complements the harm by indicating how far the relationships that have not reached the harmful stage have progressed. The helpfulness is the average interaction utility per turn Dai, Pan, Sun, Ji, Xu, Liu, Wang and Yang (2024), 

Help = 1

𝑛 ep 𝑇 

> 𝑛 ep

∑ 

> 𝑒 =1
> 𝑇 −1

∑

> 𝑡 =0

𝑟 (𝑧 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑡

, 𝑎 (𝑒 )

> 𝑡

), (23) where, in our instantiation, the utility depends only on the selected strategy. The relative reduction in harm with respect to a baseline is 100 (1 − Harm∕Harm base ), where Harm base denotes the harm of the baseline. Finally, to assess the generative planner, we compare two distributions over the plans for a given belief profile 𝐛 . The exact target 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 18 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

probability of a plan 𝜌 is the mass that the target distribution in Eq. (12) assigns to the evolutions it induces Bengio et al. (2021), 

𝑝 ⋆(𝜌 ∣ 𝐛 ) = ∑  

> 𝜁 ∶𝜌 (𝜁 )= 𝜌

𝑝 ⋆(𝜁 ∣ 𝐛 ), (24) and the sampled frequency is the fraction of 𝑛 s plans sampled by the trained network that coincide with 𝜌 Malkin et al. (2022), ̂𝑞 (𝜌 ∣ 𝐛 ) = 1

𝑛 s

> 𝑛 s

∑

> 𝑖 =1

𝟏 [𝜌 (𝑖 ) = 𝜌 ]. (25) A plan is a mode of the target if 𝑝 ⋆(𝜌 ∣ 𝐛 ) ≥ 12 max 𝜌 ′ 𝑝 ⋆(𝜌 ′ ∣ 𝐛 ), and a mode is covered if it is sampled at least once, i.e., ̂𝑞 (𝜌 ∣ 𝐛 ) > 0. Each configuration is evaluated over 60 episodes of 𝑇 = 30 turns for each of the three user profiles, so that 𝑛 ep = 180 . 

> Figure 4: Relative reduction in harm obtained by the proposed scheme with respect to each of the six baselines, namely always helpful, deployed-like Moore et al. (2026), turn-level filter Inan et al. (2023), crisis detection Arnaiz-Rodriguez et al. (2026); Pichowicz et al. (2025), multi-turn risk accumulation Mishra et al. (2026), and shield with myopic selection Alshiekh et al. (2018), with the harm of each baseline in brackets.

6.4. Results 

6.4.1. Harm reduction analysis 

Fig. 4 summarizes the comparison in terms of the relative reduction in harm obtained by the proposed scheme, which reaches 20% of harm. Each bar corresponds to one baseline, and its length is the fraction by which the harm of that baseline is reduced when the proposed scheme is used instead, while the value in brackets reports the harm of the baseline itself. The bars are sorted by decreasing reduction. The first two bars show the policies that do not restrict the available replies at all. The reduction is 82% with respect to the policy that always selects the most helpful reply, which reaches the harmful stage in every episode and provides the upper reference of the comparison, and 73% with respect to the deployed-like policy, which reproduces the sycophancy rate measured on real conversations and reaches 69% of harm. The first result follows from how helpfulness and escalation are related. The reply that users appreciate most is the one that validates them, since people rate sycophantic responses as of higher quality and are more willing to return to the systems that provide them, even when these responses reinforce harmful beliefs Cheng et al. (2026a). Validation, however, is also what drives the escalation, i.e., in real conversations, validating replies make further escalation substantially more likely Moore et al. (2026), and even an ideally rational user can be progressively drawn into distorted beliefs by an interlocutor that systematically agrees with them Chandra et al. (2026). A policy that always selects the most appreciated reply therefore validates the user at every turn, so that the relationship moves upward continuously and is never given the   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 19 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 

Table 3 

Parameters of the simulation environment and of the proposed scheme. 

Symbol Description Value 

Escalation scale 

𝑚 highest escalation level 4̄𝑧 harmful threshold 4

𝑁 c binary relational cues per message 4

Response strategies (pressure, utility) 

𝑎 0 reinforce companionship (+2 .0, 1.00) 

𝑎 1 validate neutrally (+1 .0, 0.80) 

𝑎 2 stay task oriented (0 .0, 0.60) 

𝑎 3 challenge claims (−1 .0, 0.45) 

𝑎 f redirect to human relationships (−2 .0, 0.25) 

User response model 

escalation ratio, reinforcing vs neutral reply 7.4

recovery time under a neutral reply (turns) 8

escalation probability under a neutral reply 0.06 

validation rate of the deployed-like baseline 0.70 

User profiles (𝜎, 𝜚 )

low susceptibility (0 .8, 1.2) 

medium susceptibility (1 .1, 0.9) 

high susceptibility (1 .6, 0.7) 

Language models 

message generation, strategy realization Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct cue extraction, uncertainty set Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct cue extraction, uncertainty set Falcon3-3B-Instruct cue extraction, uncertainty set SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct held-out extraction, stage judgment Phi-3.5-mini-instruct messages per profile and stage 100 

Decision scheme 

𝐿 safety horizon 8

𝛿 tolerance 0.10 

𝛽 plausibility–utility trade-off 1.0

𝑁 sampled plans per decision 64 

𝑀 models in the uncertainty set 3

perturbation of the uncertainty set ±25% 

Generative planner 

hidden layers × units 2 × 64 

learning rate (Adam) 5 × 10 −4 

network for log 𝑍 𝜙 , hidden layers × units 1 × 32 

learning rate of log 𝑍 𝜙 10 −3 

training iterations 6000 

batch size 32 

Evaluation 

𝑇 turns per episode 30 

episodes per user profile 60 

opportunity to recover. The second one is due to the fact that the deployed-like policy does not validate the user at every turn, but alternates validating replies with neutral or protective ones. These replies, however, do not compensate for the validating ones, because the effect of a validating reply is immediate, whereas the recovery induced by a neutral reply unfolds over several turns. The occasional protective reply slows the escalation without reversing it, which is the cumulative mechanism by which individually acceptable exchanges lead to harm. The latter is the most informative comparison, since it quantifies the margin available over the behavior of currently deployed systems rather than over an artificial worst case. 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 20 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures     

> Figure 5: Safety–helpfulness trade-off. The baselines are single points, while the proposed scheme spans a frontier as the tolerance 𝛿 varies.
> Figure 6: Cumulative harm and average escalation stage over the turns of a conversation, averaged over all users and episodes.

The shield with myopic selection applies exactly the same admissibility test as the proposed scheme, so its bar isolates the contribution of how the reply is chosen among those that satisfy the safety constraint, since the restriction itself is identical. The reason for its poor performance lies in what admissibility guarantees. In fact, a reply is admissible if a safe continuation exists after it, not if the system will actually follow that continuation. By always selecting the most helpful admissible reply, which is also the most escalating one, the myopic policy consumes at every turn the margin that admissibility preserves, and drives the relationship to the boundary of the admissible region. This is visible in the fraction of turns in which no admissible reply is left, which is the highest among all policies, and in which the system can only resort to the fallback as an emergency action. Crisis detection, instead, applies the most cautious reply whenever the estimated stage is already high, so what limits it is the point at which the intervention is triggered rather than the intervention itself. Since the stage is inferred from indirect cues, the belief lags behind the actual stage, and the intervention is triggered when the relationship is often already one step away from harm. Moreover, the policy switches back to the most helpful reply as soon as the estimated stage decreases, so that the relationship oscillates around the    

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 21 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures
> Figure 7: Harm and helpfulness averaged over the user profiles.

intervention threshold instead of moving away from it. The multi-turn detector improves on crisis detection because it reacts to the trend of the estimated risk, and intervenes earlier, but it remains reactive, since it responds to an escalation that has already started. The turn-level filter is stronger because it evaluates each reply before issuing it, and blocks those that may lead to the harmful stage at the next turn. In our environment the relationship moves by one level at a time, so that the harmful stage can only be reached from the preceding one, and a filter that looks one turn ahead is sufficient whenever that stage is recognized. Its residual harm arises when it is not, since the filter lets the relationship escalate freely up to the stage preceding harm, and relies on detecting it at the last step, so that every estimation error at that point turns into harm. The proposed scheme, by contrast, keeps the relationship away from that stage in the first place, since a reply is selected according to how many safe futures it preserves over the planning and safety horizons, which leaves a margin that absorbs estimation errors. The margin over the latter is the smallest of the comparison, and should therefore be read together with Fig. 5, where the two policies are compared at equal helpfulness. 

6.4.2. Safety-helpfulness trade-off 

Fig. 5 places all the policies on the safety–helpfulness plane, where the horizontal axis reports the average interaction utility per turn and the vertical axis the percentage of episodes reaching the harmful stage. Each baseline corresponds to a single point, since its behavior is fixed, whereas the proposed scheme corresponds to a curve, obtained by varying the tolerance 𝛿 that defines how much residual risk is accepted when a reply is declared admissible. The lower right region of the plane is the desirable one, and a policy is preferable to another when it lies below it at the same horizontal position. The shape of the curve reflects the structure of the problem. For large tolerances, the admissibility test excludes only the replies that make harm almost certain, and the scheme behaves similarly to the unconstrained baselines. As the tolerance decreases, harm falls rapidly while helpfulness changes, because the replies that are excluded first are the escalating ones issued when the relationship is already advanced, which contribute much to harm but little to the overall utility, since such stages are visited in a small fraction of the turns. For very small tolerances, instead, the test admits almost exclusively the most cautious replies even at the initial stages, where validating the user would be safe, and helpfulness collapses. The steep part of the curve therefore corresponds to the region where the tolerance removes risk at almost no cost, and its knee identifies the operating point beyond which additional safety has to be paid in helpfulness. The baselines, by contrast, cluster around a similar level of helpfulness, since all of them select the most helpful reply whenever they do not intervene, and differ mainly in harm, that is, in when and how they intervene. The policies that react to observable cues, i.e., crisis detection and the multi-turn detector, lie above the curve, because they intervene once the escalation is already visible. The shield with myopic selection lies close to the curve, since it applies the same admissibility test, but it does not improve on it, because selecting the most helpful admissible reply consumes the margin that admissibility preserves. The turn-level filter lies close to the curve as well, in its steep region, since blocking the replies that may lead to harm at the next turn is effective whenever the stage preceding harm can be recognized from the current message. The distinctive property of the proposed scheme is not that it dominates every   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 22 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 probability  

> low susceptibility, 14 modes exact target GFlowNet samples

0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 probability                         

> high susceptibility, 15 modes
> 10 01 11 20 02 30 03 21 12 31 13 40 04 22 32 41 23 14 33 42 24 43 34 44 00

plan (sequence of two strategies) 0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 probability 

> medium susceptibility, 17 modes

Figure 8: Exact target and sampled frequency over the individual plans, for three beliefs. The sampler covers the modes of the target instead of concentrating on the most likely plan. 

baseline at a single operating point, but that it exposes the whole trade-off through a single interpretable parameter. The baselines fix their balance between safety and helpfulness implicitly, through the way their rules are written, whereas the proposed scheme lets it be set explicitly, and the acceptable level of risk can be specified and audited independently of the response-generation mechanism. 

6.4.3. Evolution of harm along the conversation. 

Fig. 6 reports how the outcomes build up along a conversation. The left panel shows the cumulative fraction of episodes that have reached the harmful stage up to a given turn, so that each curve is non-decreasing. The right panel shows the average escalation stage at each turn, that is, the position of the relationship on the scale of Section 3, averaged over all users and episodes. The two panels are complementary, since the left one measures how many relationships have already been damaged, the right one how far the remaining ones have progressed. The two panels are also related in a precise way. The slope of each curve in the left panel is the rate at which new relationships become harmful, and this rate depends on how many relationships are close to the harmful stage at that moment, which is what the right panel describes. A policy that keeps the relationships at a high stage accumulates harm at a steady rate, whereas a policy that lowers their stage over time flattens its curve. During the first turns no harm can occur under any policy, since the 

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 23 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

relationship starts from the lowest stage and moves by at most one level per turn, so that the harmful stage cannot be reached before a few exchanges. The policies then separate in two different ways. Crisis detection accumulates harm early, because it replies in the most helpful way until the estimated risk becomes high, and the most susceptible users reach the harmful stage before the intervention is triggered. The deployed-like policy, instead, accumulates harm late but without interruption. In fact, its average stage never stabilizes and keeps increasing along the whole conversation, so that its curve eventually overtakes those of the reactive safeguards. This is the cumulative mechanism discussed above, observed over time, since no single turn is decisive, but the relationship never stops moving upward. The turn-level filter shows the opposite profile. It has the lowest harm during the first turns, because it blocks the replies that may lead to harm at the next turn, but its average stage rises steadily toward the same level reached by crisis detection. The filter does not prevent the relationship from approaching the harmful stage, and only intervenes at the last step, so that the relationships it protects remain close to that stage and every missed detection turns into harm. Its curve grows at an almost constant rate for the rest of the conversation. The proposed scheme is the only policy whose average stage decreases after an initial rise. Once the relationship has progressed during the first turns, the scheme favors the replies that preserve the largest mass of safe futures, which are those that move the relationship back toward the initial stages. As a result, fewer relationships remain close to the harmful stage as the conversation proceeds, and its cumulative harm grows more slowly and flattens toward the end, while the curves of the baselines keep rising. The shield with myopic selection follows a similar pattern in the right panel, since it applies the same admissibility test, but at a higher stage, because selecting the most helpful admissible reply does not actively bring the relationship back. 

6.4.4. Average performance across user profiles 

Fig. 7 reports harm and helpfulness averaged over user profiles. The right panel shows that the four policies operate at comparable levels of helpfulness, which differ by only a few hundredths, since all of them select the most helpful reply whenever they do not intervene. The comparison on harm is therefore made at essentially the same utility, which is the condition under which a reduction in harm can be attributed to the selection rule rather than to a more conservative behavior. Under this condition, the left panel shows that the proposed scheme is the safest policy, and the ordering of the policies separates the contributions of the two ingredients of the scheme. The first ingredient is memory. The turn-level filter evaluates each reply on the current message alone, and in the text-based condition a single message carries little information on the stage, since users rarely express the state of their relationship explicitly. The filter therefore often fails to recognize that the relationship is close to the harmful stage, and every such failure turns into harm. The shield with myopic selection, instead, relies on the belief, which accumulates evidence across the whole interaction, and on the admissibility test built upon it, and reduces harm substantially. The second ingredient is the selection among the admissible replies. The proposed scheme shares the admissibility test with the shield, but chooses the reply that preserves the largest mass of safe futures instead of the most helpful one, and this further reduces harm. Crisis detection, which also uses the belief but only acts once the estimated risk is already high, remains the most harmful, which confirms that memory is useful only if it is used to act before the escalation becomes visible. 

6.4.5. Behavior of the generative planner 

Finally, Fig. 8 examines the behavior of the generative planner at the level of the individual plans. Each panel corresponds to one decision, i.e., to a given user profile and to the belief held at that turn, and the horizontal axis lists the 25 plans that the planner can construct. For each plan, the grey bar is the probability assigned by the exact target of Eq. (12) and the green bar is the frequency with which the plan is sampled by the trained network. The figure compares the distribution the planner is required to reproduce with the one it actually produces. The three panels differ both in the profile and in the belief, and are shown to illustrate that the target is multimodal in different situations. Three aspects are relevant. The first concerns the plans that receive no probability at all, which appear on the right of each panel. These are the plans excluded by the admissibility test, such as the one that reinforces companionship for two consecutive turns, which is excluded in all three situations. The sampler never produces them, since every construction step is masked so that only strategies extending the partial plan toward an admissible plan can be selected. Safety is therefore enforced by construction, and does not depend on how well the network has been trained. The number of excluded plans also varies across the panels, since admissibility depends on the belief and on the profile, so that the same plan can be admissible in one situation and excluded in another. The second aspect concerns the shape of the target over the admissible plans. In none of the panels does the probability concentrate on a single plan. The mass is spread over many plans with comparable values, and the target has many modes in every situation. This is a property of the problem, and it means that the futures that are simultaneously plausible, safe, and useful are many and comparable,   

> Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 24 of 27

Sampling Safe Futures 

so that committing to the single most likely one would be an arbitrary choice. The third aspect concerns the fidelity of the sampler, which reproduces the target accurately. The green bars closely follow the grey ones along the whole distribution, and not only on its first entries, so that the less probable admissible plans are sampled as well. Over the evaluated beliefs, the sampler covers 97% of the modes of the target, whereas a planner that returns a single solution covers only 9% of them. This is the property that motivates the generative formulation, since the continuations along which harm occurs are not necessarily the most probable ones, and a planner that commits to the most likely evolution would optimize the reply for the case that requires the least protection. 

## 7. Conclusion 

We reformulated safety for anthropomorphic AI as a personalized, trajectory-level decision problem, in which the state of the user-system relationship is inferred from conversational cues and evolves under the system’s own responses. Within this formulation, a response strategy is admissible only if it preserves a safe continuation under every plausible model of the user. Among the admissible strategies, we use a GFlowNet to sample multiple plausible, safe, and useful evolutions of the relationship, and select the strategy associated with the largest safe continuation mass. Two main observations emerge. First, safety is inherently user-dependent. In fact, the same response may be appropriate for one relationship and unsafe for another, making uniform safeguards either overly permissive or unnecessarily restrictive. Second, safety requires reasoning beyond a single predicted future. The use of GFlowNet makes it possible to retain multiple distinct modes of how the relationship may evolve, avoiding collapsing decision making onto its most likely continuation. As AI systems become simultaneously more anthropomorphic and more capable of acting on users’ behalf, safety may increasingly depend not only on controlling what systems say or do, but also on how the relationships they create are allowed to evolve. 

## References 

Abdin, M., et al., 2024. Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language model locally on your phone. arXiv:2404.14219 .Abercrombie, G., Cercas Curry, A., Dinkar, T., Rieser, V., Talat, Z., 2023. Mirages. on anthropomorphism in dialogue systems, in: Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Association for Computational Linguistics, Singapore. pp. 4776–4790. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.290 .Akbulut, C., Weidinger, L., Manzini, A., Gabriel, I., Rieser, V., 2024. All too human? mapping and mitigating the risk from anthropomorphic AI, in: Proc. AAAI/ACM Conf. AI, Ethics, and Society (AIES), pp. 13–26. doi: 10.1609/aies.v7i1.31613 .Alshiekh, M., Bloem, R., Ehlers, R., Könighofer, B., Niekum, S., Topcu, U., 2018. Safe reinforcement learning via shielding, in: Proc. AAAI Conf. Artificial Intelligence, pp. 2669–2678. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11797 .Arnaiz-Rodriguez, A., Baidal, M., Derner, E., Annable, J.L., Ball, M., Ince, M., Perez Vallejos, E., Oliver, N., 2026. Between help and harm: An evaluation study of mental health crisis handling by large language models. JMIR Mental Health 13, e88435. doi: 10.2196/88435 .Åström, K.J., 1965. Optimal control of Markov processes with incomplete state information i. Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications 10, 174–205. doi: 10.1016/0022-247X(65)90154-X .Au Yeung, J., Dalmasso, J., Foschini, L., Dobson, R.J.B., Kraljevic, Z., 2025. The psychogenic machine: Simulating AI psychosis, delusion reinforcement and harm enablement in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.10970. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2509.10970 .Baier, C., Katoen, J.P., 2008. Principles of Model Checking. MIT Press. Belaire, R., Sinha, A., Varakantham, P., 2026. Robust critics: Defending LLMs against multi-turn attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.20472. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2607.20472 .Ben Allal, L., et al., 2025. SmolLM2: When smol goes big – data-centric training of a small language model. arXiv:2502.02737 .Bengio, E., Jain, M., Korablyov, M., Precup, D., Bengio, Y., 2021. Flow network based generative models for non-iterative diverse candidate generation, in: Ranzato, M., Beygelzimer, A., Dauphin, Y., Liang, P., Vaughan, J.W. (Eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Curran Associates, Inc.. pp. 27381–27394. Bengio, Y., et al., 2026. International AI Safety Report 2026. Technical Report DSIT 2026/001. Department for Science, Innovation and Technology. Boumedyen, S., 0. Chatbot simulator and adaptive recommendation systems: Enhancing learner profiling in ai-assisted english learning using weighted cosine similarity and structure-aware clustering. Journal of Information & Knowledge Management 0, 2650044. doi: 10.1142/ S0219649226500449 .Carroll, M., Hadfield-Menell, D., Russell, S., Dragan, A., 2021. Estimating and penalizing preference shift in recommender systems, in: Proc. 15th ACM Conf. Recommender Systems (RecSys), pp. 661–667. doi: 10.1145/3460231.3478849 .Chai, Y., Sapp, B., Bansal, M., Anguelov, D., 2020. MultiPath: Multiple probabilistic anchor trajectory hypotheses for behavior prediction, in: Proc. Conf. Robot Learning (CoRL), pp. 86–99. Chan, A., Salganik, R., Markelius, A., Pang, C., Rajkumar, N., Krasheninnikov, D., Langosco, L., He, Z., Duan, Y., Carroll, M., Lin, M., Mayhew, A., Collins, K., Molamohammadi, M., Burden, J., Zhao, W., Rismani, S., Voudouris, K., Bhatt, U., Weller, A., Krueger, D., Maharaj, T., 2023. Harms from increasingly agentic algorithmic systems, in: Proc. ACM Conf. Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT), pp. 651–666. doi: 10.1145/3593013.3594033 .

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 25 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

Chandra, K., Kleiman-Weiner, M., Ragan-Kelley, J., Tenenbaum, J.B., 2026. Sycophantic chatbots cause delusional spiraling, even in ideal Bayesians. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.19141. Chaturvedi, R., Verma, S., Srivastava, V., Khot, S.S., 2025. Exploring the frontier of anthropomorphism in AI agents: Trends and way forward. Business and Society Review 130, 42–80. doi: 10.1111/basr.70002 .Cheng, M., Lee, C., Khadpe, P., Yu, S., Han, D., Jurafsky, D., 2026a. Sycophantic AI decreases prosocial intentions and promotes dependence. Science 391, eaec8352. doi: 10.1126/science.aec8352 .Cheng, M., Yu, S., Lee, C., Khadpe, P., Ibrahim, L., Jurafsky, D., 2026b. ELEPHANT: Measuring and understanding social sycophancy in LLMs, in: Proc. International Conf. Learning Representations (ICLR). Chu, M.D., Gerard, P., Pawar, K., Bickham, C., Lerman, K., 2025. Illusions of intimacy: How emotional dynamics shape human-AI relationships. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2505.11649 , arXiv:2505.11649 .Collins, L.M., Lanza, S.T., 2010. Latent Class and Latent Transition Analysis: With Applications in the Social, Behavioral, and Health Sciences. Wiley, Hoboken, NJ. doi: 10.1002/9780470567333 .Collins, L.M., Wugalter, S.E., 1992. Latent class models for stage-sequential dynamic latent variables. Multivariate Behavioral Research 27, 131–157. doi: 10.1207/s15327906mbr2701_8 .Connors, M.H., Halligan, P.W., 2015. A cognitive account of belief: a tentative road map. Frontiers in Psychology Volume 5 - 2014. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01588 .Dai, J., Pan, X., Sun, R., Ji, J., Xu, X., Liu, M., Wang, Y., Yang, Y., 2024. Safe RLHF: Safe reinforcement learning from human feedback, in: International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR). Embretson, S.E., Reise, S.P., 2000. Item Response Theory for Psychologists. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ. Falcon-LLM Team, 2024. The Falcon 3 family of open models. https://huggingface.co/blog/falcon3 .Farquhar, S., Carey, R., Everitt, T., 2022. Path-specific objectives for safer agent incentives, in: Proc. AAAI Conf. Artificial Intelligence, pp. 9529–9538. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21186 .Feinstein, A.R., Cicchetti, D.V., 1990. High agreement but low kappa: I. the problems of two paradoxes. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 43, 543–549. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(90)90158-L .Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., Courville, A., 2016. Deep Learning. MIT Press. Guingrich, R.E., 2026. Anthropomorphism and the Social Impacts of Human-AI Interaction. Ph.D. thesis. Ifländer, C., Curry, A., Plaza-del Arco, F.M., Cercas Curry, A., 2026. Affective AI safety: The missing piece in LLM safety. arXiv:2606.23380 .Inan, H., Upasani, K., Chi, J., Rungta, R., Iyer, K., Mao, Y., Tontchev, M., Hu, Q., Fuller, B., Testuggine, D., Khabsa, M., 2023. Llama guard: LLM-based input-output safeguard for human-AI conversations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.06674. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2312.06674 .Iyengar, G.N., 2005. Robust dynamic programming. Mathematics of Operations Research 30, 257–280. doi: 10.1287/moor.1040.0129 .Jafari, E., Vassileva, J., 2026. What makes an explanation good: A systematic review examining recommender system explanations from user perspective. ACM Trans. Recomm. Syst. URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/3820245 , doi: 10.1145/3820245 .Kaelbling, L.P., Littman, M.L., Cassandra, A.R., 1998. Planning and acting in partially observable stochastic domains. Artificial Intelligence 101, 99–134. doi: 10.1016/S0004-3702(98)00023-X .Kaffee, L.A., Pistilli, G., Jernite, Y., 2026. INTIMA: A benchmark for human-AI companionship behavior, in: Proc. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR). Kasirzadeh, A., Evans, C., 2023. User tampering in reinforcement learning recommender systems, in: Proc. AAAI/ACM Conf. AI, Ethics, and Society (AIES), pp. 58–69. doi: 10.1145/3600211.3604669 .Kirk, H.R., Gabriel, I., Summerfield, C., Vidgen, B., Hale, S.A., 2025. Why human–AI relationships need socioaffective alignment. Humanities and Social Sciences Communications 12, 728. doi: 10.1057/s41599-025-04532-5 .Kocsis, L., Szepesvári, C., 2006. Bandit based Monte-Carlo planning, in: Proc. European Conf. Machine Learning (ECML), Springer. pp. 282–293. doi: 10.1007/11871842_29 .Landis, J.R., Koch, G.G., 1977. The measurement of observer agreement for categorical data. Biometrics 33, 159–174. doi: 10.2307/2529310 .Levine, S., 2018. Reinforcement learning and control as probabilistic inference: Tutorial and review. arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.00909. Li, M., Suh, A., 2022. Anthropomorphism in AI-enabled technology: A literature review. Electronic Markets 32, 2245–2275. doi: 10.1007/ s12525-022-00591-7 .Liu, S., Zheng, C., Demasi, O., Sabour, S., Li, Y., Yu, Z., Jiang, Y., Huang, M., 2021. Towards emotional support dialog systems, in: Proc. 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and 11th International Joint Conf. Natural Language Processing (ACL-IJCNLP), pp. 3469–3483. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.acl-long.269 .Maeda, T., Buening, R., 2026. Safety theater in anthropomorphic AI: Why we need to shift from safety to accountability narratives, in: Proceedings of the 2026 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT ’26), Association for Computing Machinery, Montreal, QC, Canada. pp. 2225–2252. doi: 10.1145/3805689.3812282 .Maeda, T., Quan-Haase, A., 2024. When human-AI interactions become parasocial: Agency and anthropomorphism in affective design, in: Proceedings of the 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 1068–1077. doi: 10.1145/3630106.3658956 .Maeda, T., Stark, L., 2025. Anthropomorphism as social affordance: Charting the co-animation of chatbots into social “agents”, in: Proceedings of the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, pp. 1661–1673. doi: 10.1609/aies.v8i2.36664 .Malkin, N., Jain, M., Bengio, E., Sun, C., Bengio, Y., 2022. Trajectory balance: Improved credit assignment in GFlowNets, in: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 5955–5967. doi: 10.52202/068431-0431 .Mehta, A., Moore, J., Anthis, J.R., Agnew, W., Lin, E., Yin, P., Ong, D.C., Haber, N., Dweck, C., 2026. The dynamics of delusion: Modeling bidirectional false belief amplification in human-chatbot dialogue. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.25096. Mishra, S., Chukkapalli, D., Naik, G.R., 2026. Stateful guardrails for multi-turn LLM systems: A conversational risk accumulation framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.19361. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2607.19361 .

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 26 of 27 Sampling Safe Futures 

Moore, J., Mehta, A., Agnew, W., Anthis, J.R., Louie, R., Mai, Y., Yin, P., Cheng, M., Paech, S.J., Klyman, K., Chancellor, S., Lin, E., Haber, N., Ong, D.C., 2026. Characterizing delusional spirals through human-LLM chat logs, in: Proc. ACM Conf. Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT), pp. 7631–7674. doi: 10.1145/3805689.3806443 .Nilim, A., El Ghaoui, L., 2005. Robust control of Markov decision processes with uncertain transition matrices. Operations Research 53, 780–798. doi: 10.1287/opre.1050.0216 .Paech, S.J., 2025. Spiral-Bench. GitHub repository. Peter, S., Riemer, K., West, J.D., 2025. The benefits and dangers of anthropomorphic conversational agents. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 122, e2415898122. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2415898122 .Phan-Minh, T., Grigore, E.C., Boulton, F.A., Beijbom, O., Wolff, E.M., 2020. CoverNet: Multimodal behavior prediction using trajectory sets, in: Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 14074–14083. doi: 10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.01408 .Pichowicz, W., Kotas, M., Piotrowski, P., 2025. Performance of mental health chatbot agents in detecting and managing suicidal ideation. Scientific Reports 15, 31652. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-17242-4 .Qwen Team, 2024. Qwen2.5 technical report. arXiv:2412.15115 .Rabiner, L.R., 1989. A tutorial on hidden Markov models and selected applications in speech recognition. Proceedings of the IEEE 77, 257–286. doi: 10.1109/5.18626 .Rauh, M., Marchal, N., Manzini, A., Hendricks, L.A., Comanescu, R., Akbulut, C., Stepleton, T., Mateos-Garcia, J., Bergman, S., Kay, J., et al., 2024. Gaps in the safety evaluation of generative AI, in: Proc. AAAI/ACM Conf. AI, Ethics, and Society (AIES), pp. 1200–1217. doi: 10.1609/aies.v7i1.31717 .Röttger, P., Pernisi, F., Vidgen, B., Hovy, D., 2025. SafetyPrompts: A systematic review of open datasets for evaluating and improving large language model safety, in: Proc. AAAI Conf. Artificial Intelligence, pp. 27617–27627. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v39i26.34975 .Salzmann, T., Ivanovic, B., Chakravarty, P., Pavone, M., 2020. Trajectron++: Dynamically-feasible trajectory forecasting with heterogeneous data, in: Proc. European Conf. Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 683–700. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-58523-5_40 .Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., Klimov, O., 2017. Proximal policy optimization algorithms. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.1707. 06347 , arXiv:1707.06347 .Shi, W., Wang, X., Oh, Y.J., Zhang, J., Sahay, S., Yu, Z., 2020. Effects of persuasive dialogues: Testing bot identities and inquiry strategies, in: Proc. CHI Conf. Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1–13. doi: 10.1145/3313831.3376843 .Solé, R., Ruffini, G., Castaldo, F., Tuccio, M., Seoane, L.F., De Domenico, M., Elena, S.F., Krakauer, D.C., Levin, M., 2026. Large-language models as a cognitive virus. arXiv preprint arXiv:2609.03344. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2609.03344 .Sutton, R.S., Barto, A.G., 2018. Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. 2 ed., MIT Press. Toussaint, M., 2009. Robot trajectory optimization using approximate inference, in: Proc. Int. Conf. Machine Learning (ICML), pp. 1049–1056. doi: 10.1145/1553374.1553508 .Weidinger, L., Uesato, J., Rauh, M., Griffin, C., Huang, P.S., Mellor, J., Glaese, A., Cheng, M., Balle, B., Kasirzadeh, A., et al., 2022. Taxonomy of risks posed by language models, in: Proc. ACM Conf. Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT), pp. 214–229. doi: 10.1145/ 3531146.3533088 .Westhäußer, R., Minker, W., Zepf, S., 2025. Enabling personalized long-term interactions in LLM-based agents through persistent memory and user profiles. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.07925. Xu, Y., Chi, C.G., Gursoy, D., Cai, R., 2026. Rethinking AI anthropomorphism: A holistic conceptualization and scale across AI systems and service contexts. Technology in Society 85, 103189. doi: 10.1016/j.techsoc.2025.103189 .Yan, B., Lin, W., Zhu, Y., Wang, S., 2026. SafeDream: Safety world model for proactive early jailbreak detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.16824. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2604.16824 .Yuan, Y., Zhang, J., Aledavood, T., Zhang, R., Saha, K., 2026. Mental health impacts of AI companions: Triangulating social media quasi-experiments, user perspectives, and relational lens, in: Proceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 1–22. doi: 10.1145/3772318.3790558 .Zhang, R., Li, H., Meng, H., Zhan, J., Gan, H., Lee, Y.C., 2025a. The dark side of AI companionship: A taxonomy of harmful algorithmic behaviors in human-AI relationships, in: Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 1–17. doi: 10.1145/3706598.3713429 .Zhang, Z., Dai, Q., Bo, X., Ma, C., Li, R., Chen, X., Zhu, J., Dong, Z., Wen, J.R., 2025b. A survey on the memory mechanism of large language model-based agents. ACM Transactions on Information Systems 43, 1–47. doi: 10.1145/3748302 .Zhu, Y., Wang, C., Chu, J., 2026. A typology of ai anthropomorphism and associated risks in human–ai interaction: Evidence from real-world incidents. International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction 0, 1–23. doi: 10.1080/10447318.2026.2709241 .Ziebart, B.D., Maas, A., Bagnell, J.A., Dey, A.K., 2008. Maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning, in: Proc. AAAI Conf. Artificial Intelligence, pp. 1433–1438. Zirikly, A., Resnik, P., Uzuner, Ö., Hollingshead, K., 2019. CLPsych 2019 shared task: Predicting the degree of suicide risk in Reddit posts, in: Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology, Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota. pp. 24–33. doi: 10.18653/v1/W19-3003 .

Picano and Niyato: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 27 of 27