Title: V-Mem: Modality-Routed Retrieval for Long-Term Multimodal Agentic Memory

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.01543v1

Published Time: Tue, 04 Aug 2026 02:01:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# V-Mem: Modality-Routed Retrieval for Long-Term Multimodal Agentic Memory 

# Dingyi Kang 1, Dongming Jiang 1, Yi Li 1, Guanpeng Li 2, Bingzhe Li 1

> 1

Department of Computer Science, The University of Texas at Dallas 

> 2

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Florida {dingyi.kang, dongming.jiang, yi.li3, bingzhe.li}@utdallas.edu, liguanpeng@ufl.edu 

Abstract 

Interaction between users and LLM agents is increasingly multimodal: conversations interleave text with images, and a later question may target either. Yet most agent memories are designed around text, and even the few that support mul-timodal conversations still fail on vision-related questions. We trace this failure to an assumption behind the similarity search they rely on: in the index space, a query lies close to the relevant evidence that answers it. In multimodal settings, two gaps break it. By the modality gap , a query lies closer to mem-ory content of its own modality than to evidence in another, even in a trained joint embedding space. By the similarity-relevance gap , the content most similar to a query is often not the evidence that answers it, most acutely when a query carries both text and image and its evidence resembles neither part alone. We present V-Mem, a multimodal agentic memory system that routes retrieval by the modality of the query and that of the target evidence, both recognized from the query alone. To cross the modality gap, V-Mem organizes the con-versation into rounds and returns the target-modality content from the same round as the match, without comparing across modalities. To close the similarity-relevance gap, it searches with an LLM-generated anchor that sits closer to the relevant evidence than the query does: a hypothetical caption for a text-only query seeking an image, and an enriched search anchor, the query text plus relevant keywords extracted from the query image, when the evidence is reachable only by combining the two. On Mem-Gallery, V-Mem reaches an LLM-judge score of 0.82 versus 0.56 for the second best, with the largest mar-gin on questions carrying an image (0.87, no baseline above 0.47); on LoCoMo it scores 0.69 versus 0.58. 

Code — https://github.com/Dingyi-Kang/V-Mem 

# 1 Introduction 

Large language models (LLMs) now underpin AI agents that plan, call tools, and interpret both text and images (Yao et al. 2023; Achiam et al. 2023). Deployed as long-running as-sistants, these agents accumulate weeks or months of con-versation in which a user’s pictures, voice messages, and text messages are tightly interleaved. Retaining this history, however, remains difficult. An LLM operates only over the contents of its current context window, and its internal rep-resentations do not persist once earlier content is displaced; information introduced early in an interaction is therefore unavailable when it is later required. Simply enlarging the 

Figure 1: Three cases where similarity search fails (red) and V-Mem succeeds (green): (1) the right image is found but the evidence is the text around it; (2) the query text alone cannot find the target image; (3) the evidence is found only by com-bining the query’s text and image. Examples are illustrative. window does not resolve this: a model attends to long inputs unevenly, and evidence sitting far from the query is weighed only weakly, effects documented as lost-in-the-middle and context decay (Liu et al. 2024; Levy, Jacoby, and Goldberg 2024). Memory-Augmented Generation (MAG) confronts this by placing storage outside the model (Packer et al. 2023; Li et al. 2025; Xu et al. 2025; Jiang et al. 2026a). Rather than rely-arXiv:2608.01543v1 [cs.AI] 2 Aug 2026 ing on the context window to carry everything forward, a MAG system writes the interaction history to an external store and, at each new turn, retrieves the fragments that bear on the current request and folds them back into generation. Most current MAG systems focus on text alone. They dis-till a conversation down to text, whether summaries, graph nodes, or sentence embeddings, and find evidence by com-paring text against text (Xu et al. 2025; Liu et al. 2026b; Jiang et al. 2026a). Real interactions are rarely so tidy: users photograph a product, screenshot an error, share a diagram, or send a voice message, and later expect the agent to recall it together with whatever was said about it (Bei et al. 2026). As multimodal agents become commonplace, a memory that can index only words leaves much of the exchange unrecorded, pushing the question of how to organize and retrieve over conversations that interleave text, images, and audio to the foreground. A few systems do target multimodal memory (Liu et al. 2025; Feng et al. 2026; Liu et al. 2026a), yet they still fail on vision-related questions. The root cause is an assumption behind the similarity search they rely on: in the index space, a query lies close to the relevant evidence that answers it. However, in multimodal settings this assumption is broken by two gaps that push a query and its relevant evidence apart. First, the modality gap (Liang et al. 2022): when a query and its evidence are in different modalities, the query lies closer to memory contents of its own modality than to the evidence, even in a trained joint embedding space, which causes similarity search to rank same-modality content above the evidence. Second is the similarity-relevance gap (Furnas et al. 1987; Gao et al. 2023): the most similar content in the memory may not be the most relevant evidence for a query, especially in multimodal settings. When a query carries both text and image and its relevant evidence resembles neither individually, finding it requires combining both. Therefore, searching each modality alone retrieves only its most similar content, and causes similarity search to fail to retrieve it. Consider a user who attaches a photo of the Google head-quarters and asks, “What did we discuss about the organiza-tion shown in this image?” (Case 3 in Figure 1). The relevant evidence is from an earlier session, “Google is giving stu-dents a free one-year Gemini Pro subscription,” which re-sembles neither the query’s photo nor its text and thus causes similarity search to fail to retrieve it. Against the photo, the evidence is in a different modality, and the embedding of a building lies nowhere near that of a discussion about a subscription, so searching by the query image retrieves other building photos, but never the text evidence. Against the text, the evidence shares no words with the query, which names neither “Google” nor “subscription” but only “organization,” so a lexical or embedding match on the query text retrieves other memories that mention organizations, not this evidence about the Google subscription. To close both gaps, we propose V-Mem, a multimodal agentic memory system that routes retrieval by the modality of the query and that of the target evidence, both recognized from the query alone via a keyword rule. Because not every query needs to search over all stored text and images, and uniform search would inject distracting signals that out-rank the relevant evidence, V-Mem keeps a separate retrieval lane per memory modality, matching text against text and images against images, and activates only the lanes a case needs. When the query and its target evidence share a modality, only that lane is activated. When they are in different modal-ities, both lanes are activated, and V-Mem narrows each gap in turn. To cross the modality gap, V-Mem organizes the con-versation into rounds, each a user-assistant exchange; since the content shared within a round is likely relevant to one an-other, it searches within the lane of the query’s modality, finds the top match, and returns the associated target-modality con-tent from the same round as the match, so it is able to retrieve relevant evidence without comparing across modalities. To close the similarity-relevance gap, V-Mem prompts an LLM to generate a search anchor closer to the relevant evidence than the query itself: a hypothetical caption for a text-only query seeking an image, and an enriched search anchor , the query text plus relevant keywords extracted from the query image, when the evidence is reachable only by combining the two. The experimental results show that V-Mem outper-forms multimodal agentic memory baselines on the Mem-Gallery and LoCoMo benchmarks. On Mem-Gallery (Bei et al. 2026), it reaches an LLM-judge score of 0.82 versus 0.56 for the second best, with the largest margin on questions that carry an image (0.87, no baseline above 0.47); on Lo-CoMo (Maharana et al. 2024) it scores 0.69 versus 0.58 for the second best. Beyond accuracy, V-Mem builds in seconds with zero LLM tokens. 

# 2 Background and Problem Formulation 

Memory is a core capability of LLM agents (Zhang et al. 2025): as an interaction outgrows the context window, the agent offloads it to an external store and retrieves from it when answering later queries, rather than encoding every-thing in model parameters. Prior work terms this Memory-Augmented Generation (MAG) (Li et al. 2025; Jiang et al. 2026c). Formally, a MAG system maintains a memory Mt: at turn 

t it answers a query qt from retrieved memory and ingests new content xt,

at = LLM  qt, R(qt, Mt), Mt+1 = U Mt, x t

,

(1) where R retrieves the evidence relevant to qt from Mt, and 

U writes xt into memory. Almost all systems implement 

R as similarity search , whether by dense-embedding cosine or sparse lexical matching (BM25), ranking stored memory content by its similarity to the query, 

R(q, M) = top -k 

> u∈ M

s e(q), e (u), (2) where e(·) maps a query or memory item to a representation, 

s(·, ·) scores their similarity, and the query q serves as the search anchor . Either kind of index succeeds only if the 

relevant evidence u⋆, the content in memory that answers 

q, lies close to the anchor in the index space and so ranks among the top k.As LLMs increasingly handle images and audio alongside text, interactions become multimodal. However, most MAG Figure 2: The V-Mem pipeline. Memory construction keeps the conversation as it is, organizing it into rounds; each round, one user-assistant exchange, holds memory units, each a text span or image from user or assistant. All text, including image captions, is indexed by a dense text embedding and a sparse BM25 index, and the raw image by a visual embedding. Routed retrieval recognizes the (query, target) modality pair from the query alone and fires only the lanes that case needs, searching with the appropriate anchor: the raw query, a hypo-caption, or an enriched anchor. Re-rank by round scores each round by its best-matching unit, fuses the lanes by rank, and returns each top round with its ±1 neighbors. systems are still built around text (Packer et al. 2023; Xu et al. 2025; Liu et al. 2026b; Jiang et al. 2026a); MemVerse (Liu et al. 2025) and Omni-SimpleMem (Liu et al. 2026a) index images only through captions, so visual content never enters the search. Some systems instead retrieve across modalities directly, matching a text query against stored images or an image query against stored text (Feng et al. 2026; Chen et al. 2022), but two gaps push the query and its relevant evidence 

u⋆ apart and make similarity search fail. First, the modal-ity gap : when the query and u⋆ are in different modalities, the query lies closer to memory content of its own modality than to u⋆, so similarity search ranks same-modality con-tent above u⋆ (Liang et al. 2022); contrastive encoders such as CLIP and SigLIP (Radford et al. 2021; Zhai et al. 2023) learn a shared space to narrow this, and memory systems such as M2A (Feng et al. 2026) adopt it, but the gap per-sists even in this trained joint embedding space. Second, the 

similarity-relevance gap : even within one modality, the con-tent in memory most similar to the query is often not u⋆,because u⋆ often does not resemble the query it answers (Furnas et al. 1987; Gao et al. 2023), especially in the multi-modal setting. To narrow this gap, MuRAG (Chen et al. 2022) trains its encoder and retriever together to fetch the most rel-evant content, but this needs task-specific supervision and does not generalize to general-purpose conversational mem-ory. What is worse, all of these approaches share the same blind spot: a query that carries both text and image, and whose relevant evidence resembles neither part alone. Find-ing such evidence requires combining the two, yet searching each modality alone retrieves only its most similar content and fails to retrieve u⋆.

# 3 V-Mem Design 

## 3.1 Overview 

V-Mem organizes the interaction history into rounds , each one user-assistant exchange, and keeps each text span and image in a round as a separate unit . Each unit is indexed and stored in the lane of its modality: text units in a text lane, image units in an image lane (§3.2). At query time, rather than apply one uniform search to every query over all mem-ory, V-Mem routes: by a keyword rule it infers the (query, target) modality pair from the query alone, then, based on that pair, decides what to search over (which lanes), what to search with (the raw query, or an anchor the LLM gen-erates), and what to return (which rounds, and whether to add their neighbors). To close the gap between the query and its target evidence , the relevant evidence that answers it, V-Mem uses two mechanisms: matching through a shared round to cross the modality gap, and searching with an LLM-generated anchor closer to the target evidence, closing the similarity-relevance gap (§3.3, Figure 2). Because nothing is summarized or rewritten, the memory builds in seconds with no LLM calls (§3.4). 

## 3.2 Rounds, Units, and Lanes 

V-Mem represents a conversation history as a sequence of rounds C = ( r1, . . . , r T ), where each round rt is one user-assistant exchange and holds all the memory units (units for short) in that exchange: a unit u is a single text span or a single image, with modality m(u) ∈ { txt , img }. The units of a round co-occur in one exchange, so they are likely relevant to one another, which is the premise of matching through shared rounds below. What is more, each image is kept as its own unit, so a query image can be matched against stored images directly. V-Mem further groups all the units by modality into lanes :the text lane holds the text units, and the image lane holds the image units. Two indexes cover these units. The text index carries two complementary signals, a dense embedding from an encoder ϕ (semantic) and a sparse BM25 index (lexical), over both the content of text units and the caption text of image units; the image index carries the visual embedding ψ

of each raw image. By keeping a separate lane per modality, V-Mem can search only the lanes a query calls for and leave the irrelevant memory untouched. 

## 3.3 Routed Retrieval 

Routed retrieval generalizes the similarity search of Eq. (2) along three axes: what it searches over , what it searches with ,and what it returns . Writing c = Route( q) for the query’s case, retrieval becomes 

RV-Mem (q, M) = Π c



top -k

> r

Fuse ℓ∈Lc Sℓ

 ac,ℓ (q), Uc,ℓ 



.

(3) The case c decides which lanes to activate ( Lc), and the case together with the lane decides which units within that lane to search over ( Uc,ℓ ⊆ M ) and what to search with ( ac,ℓ (q), the raw query or an anchor generated by an LLM). Each active lane scores every round independently ( Sℓ), Fuse merges the per-lane rankings into one, and Πc assembles the top k

rounds into the content returned to the answer LLM. Eq. (2) is the special case of a single lane whose candidate set is all of memory, whose anchor is the raw query, and whose return map is the identity. The rest of this subsection specifies how V-Mem recognizes the case and what each case fixes (full procedure in Algorithm 1, Appendix B). 

Routing. V-Mem routes each query by its (query, target) modality pair, activating only the lanes and strategy that case needs. It recognizes both modalities from the query alone, with no LLM call: the query modality is decided by whether an image is attached in the query, and the target modality is inferred by a keyword rule that classifies the query as asking for an image or for a fact (full rule in Appendix B). Given that a query always carries the question text itself, the modality of the query is either pure text or text with an image, never image alone. In contrast, its target evidence is either text or image. This gives four cases (Figure 2): two same-modality retrievals (text →text and image+text →image) and two cross-modality retrievals (text →image and image+text →text). Routing this way keeps a lane from adding distractors to a case it doesn’t serve: activating the image lane would distract a text →text retrieval, and vice versa. Keeping separate lanes and routing by modalities enable V-Mem to apply the strategy each case calls for. Among the four cases, the two same-modality retrievals are direct: the query and its target evidence are in the same modality, so only the lane of the shared modality is acti-vated. The two cross-modality retrievals, text →image and image+text →text, however, face both the modality gap and the similarity-relevance gap at once. To address them, V-Mem activates both lanes and combines two mechanisms: matching through a shared round, and searching with an LLM-generated anchor. We explain each in turn below. 

Matching through shared rounds. Comparing a query di-rectly against evidence in another modality is unreliable, and thus a way to reach that modality without cross-modal com-parison is needed. V-Mem crosses the modality gap through rounds: it matches the query within the lane of its own modal-ity, finds the top match, and returns the target-modality units from the same round as the match. Units in the same round co-occur and tend to be related, so the returned units are likely relevant to the query. For example, in Case 1 of Fig-ure 1, the matched plant photo cannot name its species, but the exchange beside it does. V-Mem applies this matching in both cross-modality cases: 

• Text → image. The query is text, so V-Mem matches in the text lane, restricted to the text of image-bearing rounds: searching all text would let rounds without images out-rank those that hold the target image, and a round without an image has nothing to return. It then returns the images in the top rounds. 

• Image+text → text. The query carries an image, so V-Mem matches in the image lane, comparing the query image with stored images by similarity between their vi-sual embeddings. It then returns the text of the top rounds. Every match stays within one modality, so V-Mem needs no learned cross-modal alignment; the round, not a shared embedding space, links the two modalities. 

Searching with an LLM-generated anchor. In multi-modal settings, the raw query often does not resemble the target evidence, so matching with it misses that evidence. What is needed is a search anchor that sits closer to the rele-vant evidence than the query does, and V-Mem obtains one by generating it with an LLM. It takes a different form in each cross-modality case (prompts in Appendix C): 

• Text → image. The query asks to retrieve a stored picture without providing any reference image. V-Mem therefore 

replaces the query with an LLM-generated hypotheti-cal caption ( hypo-caption ), a caption the target image would plausibly have, and matches it against the stored images’ captions (Case 2 of Figure 1). Given that a hypo-caption describes the one image the query is looking for, V-Mem first checks whether the query identifies an image or counts images, based on a keyword rule with no LLM call; a counting query keeps the raw query text, because there is no single image for a caption to describe. 

• Image+text → text. The target evidence often resembles neither the query text nor the attached image alone, so finding it requires both. V-Mem therefore prompts a vi-sion LLM to extract, from the attached image, the key-words the answering turns are likely to contain, and ap-pends them to the query text. The text lane then searches with this enriched anchor , which sits closer to the target evidence than the query text or the image alone (Case 3 of Figure 1). 

Scoring and fusion. Each active lane carries one or more 

signals , the ways its units can be scored. The text lane scores its text with a dense embedding ( ϕ) and a sparse BM25 index. The image lane scores an image either by the visual embedding ( ψ) of the raw image, when the query carries an image, or by the dense and sparse signals over the image’s caption, when it does not. Let Jc collect the signals that case 

c activates. A signal j ∈ Jc in lane ℓ scores the units of Uc,ℓ 

against that lane’s anchor ac,ℓ (q) using its own encoder ej :the dense and visual signals take cosine similarity, 

sj (u) = cos  ej (ac,ℓ ), e j (u), (4) and the sparse signal uses BM25. Scores are computed per unit, but retrieval ranks rounds, so under each signal a round takes the highest score of its units. Because the signals sit on different scales (bounded cosine versus unbounded BM25), V-Mem fuses them by rank rather than raw score (Cormack, Clarke, and Buettcher 2009): 

Sj (r) = max 

> u∈rℓ

sj (u), score( r) = X

> j∈Jc

1

κ + rank j (r) ,

(5) where rℓ = r ∩ U c,ℓ collects the units of round r that lane 

ℓ ranks, Sj (r) is the score round r earns under signal j,

rank j (r) is its position when all rounds are sorted by that score, and κ is a smoothing constant. Ranking puts the signals on a common footing, so no signal dominates by scale. Fusion returns the top-k rounds under score( r).

Context assembly. What V-Mem returns depends on the query type. For most queries, it wraps each top round with its ±1 adjacent rounds into one time-ordered span: adjacent rounds tend to develop one topic, so a match’s neighbors of-ten complete its evidence, from a follow-up detail to the next hop of a reasoning chain. These adjacent rounds serve a simi-lar role to the links among entities in graph-based memories. Aggregation questions call for the opposite: their evidence is scattered across many distant rounds. For example, “how many different museums have we discussed?” draws on the whole history. Neighbors add little in this case, and within a limited return budget they would crowd out the many rounds such questions need, so for such queries V-Mem drops the neighbors and returns more rounds instead. V-Mem recog-nizes these questions from the query’s wording by a keyword rule, with no LLM call (full rule in Appendix B). 

## 3.4 Memory Construction 

V-Mem builds its memory with local encoders alone, keeping the conversation as it is rather than rewriting it. Extraction-based construction spends LLM calls to compress the history into summaries, notes, or graph nodes, and whatever it drops is unavailable at retrieval time; V-Mem keeps every span and image and leaves the selection to query time. For each round, it emits one text unit per span and one image unit per image, then indexes each unit and keeps it in its lane (§3.2). Audio is treated as text: a voice message is transcribed and stored as a text unit of its round (as “ [Audio: <transcript>] ”), searchable through the text lane with no dedicated audio index. Figure 2 (left) traces this on two exchanges. In the first, the user sends a message with a photo of a campsite and the assistant replies: the round holds the user’s text span, the assistant’s text span, and the photo itself, and the photo’s cap-tion joins the text index so the photo can also be reached by its description. In the second, the user sends a voice message, whose transcript becomes a text unit of that round. Moreover, this memory construction is incremental: the update operator U of Eq. (1) appends each new round’s units and encodes them locally, leaving the existing memory un-touched. Since each round is encoded on its own, the memory can be built as the conversation happens rather than in a batch pass over the history, and it never needs rebuilding as the his-tory grows. Given no summarization or LLM extraction, the memory builds in seconds at zero token cost (§4.4). 

# 4 Experiments 

## 4.1 Setup 

Benchmarks. We evaluate on two long-term conversational-memory benchmarks. Mem-Gallery (Bei et al. 2026) is multimodal: 20 multi-session dialogues with 1,711 questions over nine categories. Three are visual: visual-centric search (VS), visual-centric reasoning (VR), and test-time learning (TTL), in which the query supplies a new image. The other six are text-centric: factual retrieval (FR), temporal reasoning (TR), multi-entity reasoning (MR), knowledge resolution (KR), conflict detection (CD), and answer refusal (AR). LoCoMo (Maharana et al. 2024) has 10 conversations with 1,986 questions over five categories (single-hop, multi-hop, temporal, open-domain, adversarial); following common practice we evaluate the four non-adversarial ones ( 1,540 questions). It gives images only as caption text, which suffices for every image-related question. Mem-Gallery mainly tests retrieval across modalities; LoCoMo tests retrieval within text. 

Baselines. We compare against three memory systems that differ in how they represent images. Omni (Liu et al. 2026a) is a graph- and summary-based memory that extracts memory units with an LLM and indexes images only through their captions. M2A (Feng et al. 2026) is an agentic memory that keeps each image as both a caption and an embedding, and retrieves by fusing dense, sparse, and image signals in an iterative LLM-in-the-loop pipeline. A-Mem (Xu et al. 2025) is a text-only agentic memory that builds and evolves note abstractions with an LLM per turn. 

Metrics. Our primary metric is an LLM-as-judge score (0–1) from gpt-4o-mini , which scores each answer in-dependently against the gold reference, so all systems are directly comparable. Also, we report lexical overlap (e.g., F1, BLEU, and exact match) in Appendix G. 

Backbone model. We run each baseline using its original implementation and recommended settings. Within each ex-periment all systems share the same backbone and the same text and image encoders, so differences reflect memory de-sign rather than a stronger backbone or encoder. The main results use gpt-4o-mini and a locally served Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone; Appendix E adds a smaller Qwen2.5-VL-7B. Every answer is scored by the same gpt-4o-mini 

judge in all three settings, using Mem-Gallery’s official judge prompt and, for LoCoMo, the prompt established by prior work (Jiang et al. 2026a). Table 1: LLM-judge scores on Mem-Gallery, by category and overall, under two backbone models. The judge is gpt-4o-mini 

throughout, so only the backbone differs between blocks. Within each block, the best score in each column is bold and the second best underlined. Lexical metrics are in Appendix G.                                                                                            

> System TTL VR VS AR CD KR MR FR TR Overall
> gpt-4o-mini backbone
> Omni (SimpleMem) 0.141 0.273 0.658 0.796 0.438 0.531 0.840 0.801 0.736 0.561 M2A 0.472 0.106 0.016 0.736 0.383 0.210 0.447 0.203 0.276 0.314 A-Mem 0.163 0.261 0.319 0.802 0.364 0.488 0.820 0.758 0.301 0.460
> V-Mem (ours) 0.872 0.575 0.833 0.940 0.667 0.698 0.918 0.881 0.785 0.825
> Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone
> Omni (SimpleMem) 0.190 0.420 0.735 0.837 0.414 0.654 0.891 0.854 0.825 0.628 M2A 0.540 0.118 0.033 0.867 0.278 0.080 0.296 0.123 0.012 0.287 A-Mem 0.273 0.382 0.449 0.875 0.358 0.549 0.847 0.774 0.337 0.535
> V-Mem (ours) 0.912 0.695 0.869 0.886 0.475 0.710 0.900 0.897 0.679 0.829

Table 2: LLM-judge scores on LoCoMo, by category and overall. Best per column in bold, second best underlined.                          

> System S-hop M-hop Temp. Open Overall Omni (SimpleMem) 0.663 0.555 0.442 0.440 0.583 M2A 0.491 0.363 0.274 0.477 0.422 A-Mem 0.572 0.423 0.485 0.331 0.512
> V-Mem (ours) 0.818 0.550 0.574 0.375 0.690

Implementation. V-Mem uses all-MiniLM-L6-v2 

(Reimers and Gurevych 2019) for text embeddings, BM25 (Robertson and Zaragoza 2009) for lexical match, and SigLIP (Zhai et al. 2023) for image embeddings, all running locally; the anchors are generated at answer time. 

## 4.2 Main Results 

V-Mem wins the LLM judge on both benchmarks. Ta-bles 1 and 2 report LLM-judge scores per category and over-all. On Mem-Gallery, V-Mem reaches 0.825, against 0.561 for Omni, the strongest baseline, then 0.460 for A-Mem and 0.314 for M2A. On LoCoMo it scores 0.690 against Omni’s 0.583. The ordering is unchanged under a local Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone: 0.829 for V-Mem, against Omni’s 0.628 ,A-Mem’s 0.535 and M2A’s 0.287 . There the visual mar-gin widens further, to 0.912 on provided-image questions where no baseline exceeds 0.540 , and Omni leads only on temporal reasoning ( 0.825 versus 0.679 ). Under a smaller 7B backbone the ordering does change (Appendix E). Lex-ical metrics are in Appendix G: V-Mem wins every one on Mem-Gallery, while on LoCoMo they favor Omni’s longer, gold-style answers, which lexical overlap rewards regardless of correctness. 

The visual categories drive the Mem-Gallery gap. The largest margins in Table 1 fall exactly where modality-matched evidence matters. On provided-image questions (TTL) V-Mem reaches 0.872 where no baseline exceeds 0.472, and on visual reasoning (VR) 0.575 against at most 0.273. The baselines store images as captions or as coarse cross-modal embeddings, so none can match a query image against the stored images. V-Mem does, and returns the text Table 3: Incremental ablation of the core design on Mem-Gallery, scored by the LLM judge: the three visual categories these steps most affect, plus the overall score across all nine. Best per column in bold.             

> Configuration TTL VR VS Overall Vanilla (all lanes, unit-level) 0.740 0.362 0.655 0.680 + routing 0.708 0.356 0.647 0.689 + matching through shared rounds 0.890 0.537 0.801 0.818 + searching with a generated anchor 0.872 0.575 0.833 0.825

bound to the match in the same round. The advantage also holds on non-visual categories (CD, KR, MR), so it is not purely a vision effect. 

LoCoMo: wins where evidence is retrievable. Per cate-gory (Table 2), V-Mem wins single-hop decisively ( 0.818 

against 0.663 ) and temporal ( 0.574 against 0.485 ), and it ties multi-hop ( 0.550 against Omni’s 0.555 ) without build-ing any graph. Its one shortfall is open-domain, where M2A leads ( 0.477 against 0.375 ). 

## 4.3 Ablations 

Building the design up. Table 3 rebuilds V-Mem from a naive multimodal retrieval baseline, one design decision per row, with the return budget held fixed throughout: every row returns the same number of most-relevant items, so each step changes what those items are, never how many. Vanilla 

makes no decisions: every lane the query physically supports fires for every question, one uniform fusion ranks the mem-ory units, and the most relevant units are returned bare. +Routing adds only the 2 × 2 case recognition and lane assign-ment: same-modality cases keep the other modality’s lanes out, cross-modal cases keep both, and every lane still searches with the raw query. + Matching through shared rounds re-turns the match’s whole round rather than bare units. This does more than add surrounding text: a text match can now return the image beside it in the same round, and vice versa. +Searching with a generated anchor lets the lanes search with a hypothetical caption or an enriched search anchor instead of the raw query. Table 4: The cost of memory construction and query answer-ing. Lower is better in every row, and the best is in bold.                                              

> Phase Metric Omni M2A A-Mem V-Mem
> Mem-Gallery
> Build LLM tokens 2.77M 4.3B 6.92M 0
> Build wall-clock 6.5 h 73 h 5.2 h 120 s
> Answer tokens / QA 2,437 1.10M 959 10,086 Answer seconds / QA 3.31 64 0.75 2.33
> LoCoMo
> Build LLM tokens 0.89M 133M 7.8M 0
> Build wall-clock 1.9 h 11 h 5.3 h 18 s
> Answer tokens / QA 1,783 7,827 2,710 2,302 Answer seconds / QA 3.27 5.2 1.41 1.0

Each step lands where it aims, and each unlocks the next. Routing lifts every text category at once (KR +0 .043 , MR 

+0 .049 , FR +0 .037 ), but leaves the visual categories flat and dips provided-image questions (TTL 0.740 → 0.708 ). The reason for the dip is what routing switches off: Vanilla had fired every lane the query supported, including auxiliary ones that routing drops, and those had been reaching some of the answering text by chance. 37 TTL questions lose it against 20 that gain. As for matching through shared rounds, it supplies that reach by design and is by far the largest step: +0 .129 overall, moving exactly the categories routing left behind ( +0 .182 TTL, +0 .181 VR, +0 .154 VS). The generated anchor then adds +0 .007 overall, concentrated where it is triggered ( +0 .038 VR, +0 .032 VS) and offset by a small cost on provided-image questions ( −0.018 TTL). 

Route, don’t fuse. Vanilla and + routing differ only in whether lanes are assigned per case or all fired uniformly, and routing wins 0.689 to 0.680 while firing strictly fewer lanes. The per-case lane toggles in Appendix H (Table 11) show why no uniform fusion can win: a lane helps exactly when it carries discriminative signal for its case, and the same lane that adds +0 .04 in one case subtracts 0.24 in another. The same logic applies within a case. A hypo-caption describes a single image, so it helps a query that seeks one and cannot help a query that counts them. This is why V-Mem routes the anchor as well as the lanes. Appendix H reports further ablations, and Appendix L shows that on the remaining provided-image errors the evi-dence is usually retrieved and the answer is still wrong. 

## 4.4 Efficiency: Build and Answer Cost 

Build is the clean, decisive win. Table 4 reports build and answer cost. Because V-Mem keeps the conversation bound rather than extracting it, its build calls no LLM: 0 tokens, in seconds. The baselines that build their memory with an LLM pay for it before any question is asked: Omni spends around 2.8M tokens and 6.5 h, A-Mem around 6.9M tokens and 5.2 h, and M2A’s iterative pipeline runs to 4.3B tokens and 73 h. The cost also recurs as the conversation grows, because new content must be extracted too, while V-Mem’s build stays free. The zero-token build is a direct consequence of the retrieval design, not a separate optimization. 

Answer cost: a deliberate, modality-aware tradeoff. We are explicit that V-Mem does not win every token compar-ison. On Mem-Gallery it spends more answer-time tokens than the others on visual questions, because every image-bearing query triggers a vision call to extract relevant key-words from the query image, and that is precisely the mech-anism that produces its visual-QA wins. The contrast with A-Mem is instructive: A-Mem’s answer is the cheapest (959 tokens/QA) exactly because it is text-only and never looks at an image, which is also why it collapses on the visual cate-gories. The vision call can be switched off if the tokens matter more: answers get cheaper and part of the provided-image gain is given up. 

# 5 Conclusion 

We argued that the difficulty of multimodal long-term mem-ory is not a missing encoder but an unexamined assumption: retrieval by similarity search presumes the most similar con-tent in the memory is the one that answers it, which fails on two independent axes, a modality gap and a similarity-relevance gap . V-Mem answers both by routing over the (query, target) modality pair and combining two strategies. To cross the modality gap, it matches within the query’s own modality and returns the evidence that shares the same round, so it never compares across modalities; and to close the similarity-relevance gap, it searches with an LLM-generated anchor closer to the evidence: a hypothetical caption when a text-only query seeks an image, and an enriched search anchor, the query text plus relevant keywords extracted from the query image, when the query carries an image but seeks text. It returns evidence wrapped in adjacent-round context rather than traversing a graph, and, because the conversation is kept rather than extracted, it builds in seconds with zero LLM tokens. The result is a memory that wins the LLM judge on both a multimodal and a text benchmark, most decisively on the visual questions where caption-only and cross-modal baselines collapse. 

Limitations and scope. Our evaluation is scoped to image-and-text conversational memory: audio memory is treated as text, but neither benchmark contains audio, and treating au-dio or video as first-class retrievable modalities with their own lanes remains untested. V-Mem also depends on the backbone’s capacity. It reaches evidence by returning the memory content surrounding a match (the matched round together with its neighbors), and leaves the backbone to pick the answer out of that context. A backbone that cannot use that content gains nothing from it, and may even be dis-tracted by it. With a locally served Qwen2.5-VL-7B back-bone on Mem-Gallery, V-Mem only scores 0.509 against Omni’s 0.534 , reversing the ordering it holds with a stronger backbone (Appendix E). Finally, the generated anchors are not free. Both add tokens and latency at answer time, and the enriched anchor further needs a vision model, which runs whenever a query carries an image and seeks text. We see this principle, matching through shared rounds and searching with generated anchors, generalizing as multimodal agents accumulate richer, longer memories. References 

Achiam, J.; et al. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774. Bei, Y.; Wei, T.; Ning, X.; Zhao, Y.; Liu, Z.; Lin, X.; Zhu, Y.; Hamann, H.; He, J.; and Tong, H. 2026. Mem-Gallery: Benchmarking Multimodal Long-Term Conver-sational Memory for MLLM Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.03515 .Chen, W.; Hu, H.; Chen, X.; Verga, P.; and Cohen, W. W. 2022. MuRAG: Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generator for Open Question Answering over Images and Text. In 

Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) .Choi, Y.; Park, J.; Yoon, J.; Kim, S.; Jeon, J.; and Yu, Y. 2025. Zero-shot Multimodal Document Retrieval via Cross-modal Question Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.17079. Cormack, G. V.; Clarke, C. L. A.; and Buettcher, S. 2009. Reciprocal Rank Fusion Outperforms Condorcet and Indi-vidual Rank Learning Methods. In Proceedings of the 32nd International ACM SIGIR Conference .Feng, J.; Xu, B.; Chen, J.; Dai, M.; Wu, C.; Li, H.; Zeng, B.; Xie, Y.; Liang, H.; Lu, M.; and Zhang, W. 2026. M2A: Multimodal Memory Agent with Dual-Layer Hybrid Mem-ory for Long-Term Personalized Interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.07624 .Furnas, G. W.; Landauer, T. K.; Gomez, L. M.; and Dumais, S. T. 1987. The Vocabulary Problem in Human-System Com-munication. Communications of the ACM , 30(11): 964–971. Gao, L.; Ma, X.; Lin, J.; and Callan, J. 2023. Precise Zero-Shot Dense Retrieval without Relevance Labels. In Pro-ceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) .Jiang, D.; Li, Y.; Li, G.; and Li, B. 2026a. MAGMA: A Multi-Graph based Agentic Memory Architecture for AI Agents. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.03236 .Jiang, D.; Li, Y.; Li, G.; Li, Q.; and Li, B. 2026b. HAGE: Harnessing Agentic Memory via RL-Driven Weighted Graph Evolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.09942 .Jiang, D.; Li, Y.; Wei, S.; Yang, J.; Kishore, A.; Zhao, A.; Kang, D.; Hu, X.; Chen, F.; Li, Q.; and Li, B. 2026c. Anatomy of Agentic Memory: Taxonomy and Empirical Analysis of Evaluation and System Limitations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.19320 .Levy, M.; Jacoby, A.; and Goldberg, Y. 2024. Same Task, More Tokens: the Impact of Input Length on the Reasoning Performance of Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL) , 15339–15353. Li, J.; Li, D.; Xiong, C.; and Hoi, S. 2022. BLIP: Boot-strapping Language-Image Pre-training for Unified Vision-Language Understanding and Generation. In Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) .Li, Z.; Song, S.; Wang, H.; Niu, S.; Chen, D.; Yang, J.; Xi, C.; Lai, H.; Zhao, J.; Wang, Y.; et al. 2025. MemOS: An Oper-ating System for Memory-Augmented Generation (MAG) in Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22101 .Liang, W.; Zhang, Y.; Kwon, Y.; Yeung, S.; and Zou, J. 2022. Mind the Gap: Understanding the Modality Gap in Multi-modal Contrastive Representation Learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) .Liu, J.; Ling, Z.; Qiu, S.; Liu, Y.; Han, S.; Xia, P.; Tu, H.; Zheng, Z.; Xie, C.; Fleming, C.; Ding, M.; and Yao, H. 2026a. Omni-SimpleMem: Autoresearch-Guided Discov-ery of Lifelong Multimodal Agent Memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.01007 .Liu, J.; Su, Y.; Xia, P.; Han, S.; Zheng, Z.; Xie, C.; Ding, M.; and Yao, H. 2026b. SimpleMem: Efficient Lifelong Memory for LLM Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.02553 .Liu, J.; Sun, Y.; Cheng, W.; Lei, H.; Chen, Y.; Wen, L.; Yang, X.; Fu, D.; Cai, P.; Deng, N.; Yu, Y.; Hu, S.; Shi, B.; and Wang, D. 2025. MemVerse: Multimodal Memory for Lifelong Learning Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.03627 .Liu, N. F.; Lin, K.; Hewitt, J.; Paranjape, A.; Bevilacqua, M.; Petroni, F.; and Liang, P. 2024. Lost in the Middle: How Language Models Use Long Contexts. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 12: 157–173. Maharana, A.; Lee, D.-H.; Tulyakov, S.; Bansal, M.; Barbieri, F.; and Fang, Y. 2024. Evaluating Very Long-Term Conver-sational Memory of LLM Agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) .Packer, C.; Wooders, S.; Lin, K.; Fang, V.; Patil, S. G.; Stoica, I.; and Gonzalez, J. E. 2023. MemGPT: Towards LLMs as Operating Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560. Radford, A.; Kim, J. W.; Hallacy, C.; Ramesh, A.; et al. 2021. Learning Transferable Visual Models from Natural Language Supervision. In Proceedings of the 38th Interna-tional Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) .Reimers, N.; and Gurevych, I. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sen-tence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks. In Pro-ceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) .Robertson, S.; and Zaragoza, H. 2009. The Probabilistic Relevance Framework: BM25 and Beyond. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , 3(4): 333–389. Wang, Y.; Gao, Y.; Chen, X.; Jiang, H.; Li, S.; Yang, J.; Yin, Q.; Li, Z.; Li, X.; Yin, B.; Shang, J.; and McAuley, J. 2024. MemoryLLM: Towards Self-Updatable Large Lan-guage Models. In Proceedings of the 41st International Con-ference on Machine Learning (ICML) .Xu, W.; Liang, Z.; Mei, K.; Gao, H.; Tan, J.; and Zhang, Y. 2025. A-Mem: Agentic Memory for LLM Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12110 .Yao, S.; Zhao, J.; Yu, D.; Du, N.; Shafran, I.; Narasimhan, K.; and Cao, Y. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language Models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) .Zhai, X.; Mustafa, B.; Kolesnikov, A.; and Beyer, L. 2023. Sigmoid Loss for Language Image Pre-Training. In Proceed-ings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) .Zhang, G.; Fu, M.; and Yan, S. 2025. MemGen: Weaving Generative Latent Memory for Self-Evolving Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.24704 .Zhang, Z.; Dai, Q.; Bo, X.; Ma, C.; Li, R.; Chen, X.; Zhu, J.; Dong, Z.; and Wen, J.-R. 2025. A Survey on the Memory Mechanism of Large Language Model-based Agents. ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 43(6). 

# A Related Work 

Memory for LLM Agents. Memory is a fundamental component of LLM-based agents (Zhang et al. 2025), and existing approaches fall into two families. Parametric mem-ory keeps knowledge in the weights, whether by fine-tuning or a built-in memory module (Wang et al. 2024; Zhang, Fu, and Yan 2025). Non-parametric memory instead keeps the interaction history outside the model and retrieves from it, which is where V-Mem and the systems below sit. MemGPT (Packer et al. 2023) treats the LLM context win-dow as working memory and introduces OS-inspired paging to evict and reload memories from external storage on de-mand. MemOS (Li et al. 2025) carries that framing further, treating memory as a resource the system manages in its own right and putting three kinds of memory, parametric, activation, and plaintext, behind a single abstraction that can track them, combine them, and move them between stores. Its concern is how memory is administered over time, not how retrieval behaves when a query and its evidence sit in dif-ferent modalities. A-Mem (Xu et al. 2025) builds a dynamic note-taking system in which each memory unit is annotated with keywords and linked to related notes, supporting graph-structured text retrieval. SimpleMem (Liu et al. 2026b) com-presses each interaction into a small memory unit that is indexed several ways at once, then at query time works out what the user is looking for before searching, so it can narrow the search rather than scan everything. MAGMA (Jiang et al. 2026a) splits memory into four separate graphs, semantic, temporal, causal, and entity, and retrieves by learning a pol-icy that walks them, so the route to each retrieved item can be inspected afterwards. Hage (Jiang et al. 2026b) evolves a weighted memory graph through reinforcement learning. Most of these systems share one commitment: they rewrite the conversation before storing it, by summarizing it, taking notes on it, or building a graph from it. V-Mem departs from that in two ways. First, it is extraction-free: it appends each new exchange and encodes it locally, so building the memory costs zero LLM tokens where these systems spend millions (§4.4). Second, the multi-hop reasoning that motivates note links and graph edges is served instead by returning each match together with its time-ordered neighbors, which ties with graph-based memory on LoCoMo multi-hop (§4.2). A system built for multimodal conversations might be ex-pected to give up ground on text-only ones. V-Mem does not: on text-centric LoCoMo it outperforms the text-only agentic baseline on the benchmark that baseline was built for ( 0.69 

against 0.51 for A-Mem). What these systems do share, and what the next subsection takes up, is that they retrieve over text alone, storing textual summaries or sentence embeddings and matching text against text, which leaves multimodal con-versations without dedicated support. 

Multimodal Agent Memory. Pretrained multimodal en-coders such as CLIP (Radford et al. 2021), SigLIP (Zhai et al. 2023), and BLIP (Li et al. 2022) project text and images into a shared embedding space for cross-modal matching. While these encoders make modalities comparable, they are trained to align an image with text describing its visible content ,whereas a memory query about an image typically expresses its context : when it was shared, what was discussed, and why it mattered. To address this, MuRAG (Chen et al. 2022) fine-tunes a multimodal retriever paired with a generation model to retrieve relevant images and text and produce grounded an-swers; however, it requires task-specific supervision and does not transfer to agentic memory, which has no fixed corpus to train on and keeps growing. Among agent memory systems that handle multimodal conversations, MemVerse (Liu et al. 2025) converts all non-text modalities into text chunks, constructs a knowledge graph, and retrieves via graph traversal, leaving raw visual signals out of the search. M2A (Feng et al. 2026) keeps each image as both an automatically generated caption and an image embedding, and applies iterative retrieval that fuses dense text, sparse lexical, and image signals uniformly, with-out routing by the (query modality × target modality) pair. Omni-SimpleMem (Liu et al. 2026a) organizes memories into pyramid-structured units and supports multi-granularity retrieval, yet relies on text-based similarity without model-ing cross-modal relevance. All three presuppose that the most 

similar retrieved item is the most relevant one, an assumption that breaks in two ways in the multimodal long-term mem-ory setting, the modality gap and the similarity-relevance gap (Section 1). Rather than discarding visual information to make retrieval tractable, V-Mem keeps it and gives up the assumption instead: it keeps every image as its own re-trievable unit (where MemVerse searches text alone), routes each (query, target) modality pair to the lanes that serve it (where M2A fuses all lanes uniformly), and crosses modali-ties through round-level binding and generated anchors rather than text similarity alone (where Omni-SimpleMem stops at captions). The effect concentrates exactly where the presup-position fails: on Mem-Gallery’s provided-image questions V-Mem reaches 0.872 where no baseline exceeds 0.472 , and it leads every category under the gpt-4o-mini backbone (§4.2). 

Generation-Augmented Retrieval. Retrieval can also be improved by generating an intermediate surrogate that nar-rows the gap between a query and its target evidence, so the two are matched through more similar representations. HyDE (Gao et al. 2023) applies this on the query side for retrieving dense text documents: given that a short query and a long passage differ in both volume and format, an LLM ex-pands the query into a hypothetical answer document whose length and style match the target, and the real documents nearest this surrogate are then retrieved without relevance labels. PreMIR (Choi et al. 2025) instead generates on the document side, pre-computing hypothetical queries for every indexed document so that a user query can be matched against Table 5: V-Mem hyperparameter configuration. The hypo-caption is skipped on image-counting queries (§3.3); all rout-ing and gating decisions use the query alone, with no LLM call.                    

> Parameter Value text encoder ϕall-MiniLM-L6-v2 (384-d) image encoder ψSigLIP2-base-patch16-384 (768-d) sparse signal BM25 LLM (anchors +answer) the answer backbone, temperature 0 rank-fusion constant κ60 per-signal candidate pool 20 returned rounds k12 (30 for LoCoMo aggregation) neighbor window ±1
> image-round filter window ±1
> hypo-caption gate skipped on counting queries image keywords per query at most 8

them; this moves generation to build time, where its cost scales with the corpus. V-Mem generalizes this query-side, retrieval-time generation to cross-modal long-term memory. When a text-only query seeks an image, an LLM writes a hypothetical caption that replaces the query, and the search compares that caption against the stored images’ captions. When a query carrying an image seeks text, a vision model extracts relevant keywords from the image and appends them to the query text; the anchor is the resulting enriched search anchor , the original query together with those keywords. Ei-ther way the anchor is compared against material of its own modality, which is how the modality gap is avoided, and at no indexing cost. Replacing is used selectively, since a hypo-caption describes a single image and cannot serve a query that counts them (Table 11). 

# B Implementation Details 

Table 5 lists the full V-Mem configuration used in all exper-iments. All encoders run locally and are used off the shelf, with no fine-tuning. Within each backbone setting, one model at temperature 0 serves every LLM role at answer time, gen-erating both the anchors and the answer: gpt-4o-mini 

and the locally served Qwen2.5-VL-32B in the main results, and Qwen2.5-VL-7B in Appendix E. Memory construction calls no LLM at all. 

Recognizing the query and target modalities. V-Mem infers the target modality from the query’s wording with a small keyword rule. The target is taken to be an image when the question asks which image, photo or picture, or how many 

of them, and to be text otherwise. The rule is deliberately narrow: a question such as “what is the name in the picture” mentions an image but wants a fact about it, and is routed to a text target. The query modality is set separately by whether an image is attached. Both decisions use the query alone and call no LLM; the exact patterns are released with the code. 

Image-round filter. When the target is an image, V-Mem discards any ranked round that holds no image, either in the round itself or in a neighbor within ±1 rounds, and takes the top k from what remains. Such a round has nothing to return: the answer is an image, so a round without one nearby occupies a slot it cannot fill, and text-only rounds that merely mention the subject would otherwise crowd out the rounds that actually hold the picture. The filter applies only to this case, and if it would remove every candidate the unfiltered ranking is kept. 

Aggregation questions (LoCoMo only). On LoCoMo, V-Mem recognizes aggregation questions from the query’s wording with a keyword rule: counting cues such as “how many”, explicit enumeration cues such as “list” or “in what ways”, and questions asking for a set of items, for example “what activities has . . . ” or “what books has . . . ”. For these questions V-Mem returns no neighbor rounds and widens the returned set from 12 rounds to 30 instead. The branch is not used on Mem-Gallery. As with routing, the decision uses the query alone and calls no LLM; the exact trigger terms are released with the code. 

# C Prompt Library 

V-Mem uses four prompts, all served by the same 

gpt-4o-mini : an answer prompt, a conflict variant se-lected when the question asks about a contradiction, and the two anchor-generation prompts. All four are reproduced below, along with the short note appended to the context when the query carries an image, and the judge prompt used for Mem-Gallery. Line breaks and dashes are adjusted to fit the column; the wording is unchanged. Judging uses each benchmark’s established prompt unchanged, so our scores stay comparable to published numbers: Mem-Gallery’s of-ficial LLM-judge prompt, and for LoCoMo the semantic-grader prompt from prior work, whose full text appears in that paper’s appendix (Jiang et al. 2026a). 

Answer prompt. The default answer prompt. 

{context} is filled with the retrieved rounds and their neighbors, joined into time-ordered blocks as described in §3.3. When the query carries an image, a short note describing that image is appended to the context; it is shown in the next paragraph.                                                        

> You are answering aquestion using a person’s conversation history. CONTEXT (each block is one exchange; some include an image): {context} QUESTION: {question} INSTRUCTIONS: -Answer ONLY from the context above. -If the question asks which image/photo/picture, answer with the image id exactly as shown (e.g. D1:IMG_002). -If the question asks to list or enumerate, include EVERY matching item, comma-separated. -Be specific and complete; include all details the question asks for.

- Use ONLY what is written in the context blocks above -- never outside or general knowledge. - For a yes/no question about whether a specific thing was mentioned or discussed (e.g. "Did X mention any specific ...?"), answer "Not mentioned" UNLESS that specific thing is explicitly named in the context. Do not answer "Yes" based on related or general discussion, and never invent specifics. - If the answer is genuinely not in the context, reply exactly: Information not found ANSWER: 

Attached-image note. The answer call is text-only, so the query’s image never reaches the backbone even when the backbone can see images. This note carries the image into the context as text: it states what the attachment shows and, when the image lane returned a match, names the stored image it best matches, so the backbone can identify the entity from the conversation rather than reporting that it found nothing. The middle sentence is present only in that matched case. 

[ATTACHED IMAGE] The user’s attached image shows: {query_caption}. It visually matches aconversation image: ({image_id} --"{caption}"). Identify the product/entity it depicts using the conversation and answer; do NOT reply "Information not found" if the conversation identifies it. 

Conflict prompt. Selected by a keyword check when the question asks about a conflict or contradiction (category CD); it forces a one-word verdict because the references are one word: 

You are checking a person’s conversation history for a conflict or contradiction. Answer with a clear Yes or No. CONTEXT (each block is one exchange): {context} QUESTION: {question} INSTRUCTIONS: - A CONFLICT exists if the claim (or astatement in the conversation) asserts a fact that the conversation establishes DIFFERENTLY -- e.g. awrong name, attribute, or action for an entity the conversation describes (the conversation says the pet is named Lumi; a claim that it is named Coco CONFLICTS), or a claim the conversation directly contradicts. - If you identify ANY factual discrepancy between the claim and what the conversation establishes, answer "Yes" -- do NOT explain it away as "no conflict". - For "does X contradict himself / is there a contradiction" questions: look for two statements in the conversation that cannot both be true; if such a pair exists, answer "Yes". - Answer "No" ONLY if the claim is consistent with / supported by the conversation, OR the conversation does not address the topic at all (an unaddressed topic is NOT aconflict). - Reason internally, but OUTPUT EXACTLY ONE WORD: "Yes" or "No" --nothing else (no reason, no explanation, no punctuation beyond the word). The reference answers are a single word, so anything more is scored wrong. ANSWER: 

Hypo-caption prompt (text → image). Sent to the text LLM with the question alone; the returned caption replaces the query in the image lane: 

A user is searching the images shared in a conversation for the ONE image that answers their question. Write the caption that image most likely has, in the style of the conversation’s own captions: a dense noun-phrase description of what is visible, about two sentences and 45 words, covering subjects, attributes, colours, setting, and any visible text or labels. Keep whatever the question names concretely, and add the appearance it implies but does not state. Do not begin with "A photo of", and do not assume the target is aphotograph; it may be an illustration, an infographic, a screenshot, or a document. Question: {q} Caption: 

Enriched-anchor prompt (image+text → text). Sent to the vision LLM together with the attached image; the re-turned keywords are appended to the query text to form the anchor both text lanes search: 

You can SEE the user’s attached image. QUESTION: {q} The answer to that question is in a past conversation, not in the image. List the search terms most likely to appear in the conversation turns that answer it. Start from what the question asks about and find it in the image: if it asks about a breed, name the animal and its breed; about a category, name the item and what kind of thing it is; about a component, name that part. Then add the other visible things aperson might have mentioned when sharing this picture: the main subject, brands, labels, species, places, objects. For each, give the forms aconversation might use: the specific name, the everyday name, and the general category, since it may use any of them. Include the words the question itself hinges on. Give at most 8 terms. Choose them by one test: how likely is this exact word to appear in the sentence that answers the question? Keep terms that would identify the answer; drop terms that merely describe the picture. Single words or short phrases, never sentences. Prefer names and nouns over adjectives. Omit anything you are inferring rather than seeing. Return JSON: {"keywords": ["...", "..."]} 

Judge prompt (Mem-Gallery, official). The prompt asks for one of five score levels, but the benchmark’s scorer col-lapses them, and every stored score takes one of {0, 0.5, 1}.Every system’s answers on Mem-Gallery are scored by 

gpt-4o-mini under the benchmark’s released judge prompt, reproduced verbatim: 

You are an impartial judge evaluating the memory capabilities of an AI assistant with the question-answering task. Your task is to compare the Assistant’s Answer against the Ground Truth and assign a score of 0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, or 1. ### Scoring Rubric **Score 0 (Incorrect / Miss):** - The answer contradicts the Ground Truth. - For Yes/No questions: The answer has the wrong polarity (e.g., says "Yes" when Ground Truth is "No"). - For Open-ended questions: The answer provides factually wrong information or hallucinations. - The assistant fails to provide the required information. **Score 0.25 (Poor / Tangential):** - The answer touches on the topic but misses the **core entity** or key value required. - The answer contains a mix of minor correct details and **significant hallucinations** or wrong associations. - The answer is excessively vague to the point of being useless (e.g., answering "a dog" instead of "a golden retriever"). **Score 0.5 (Partial / Vague):** - The answer is technically correct, but lacks confidence or is incomplete. - The answer captures the **main entity or concept** correctly but misses a part of the required supporting details. - For Yes/No questions: The polarity is correct, but the reasoning is flawed (if have), or the assistant is uncertain (e.g., "I think it might be Yes"). - For Open-ended questions: The answer is too general or misses key adjectives/details present in the Ground Truth. **Score 0.75 (Good / Minor Imperfection):** - The answer is largely accurate and captures the core information confidently. - It misses only **minor details** (e.g., specific adjectives or secondary details) that do not alter the main truth. - The answer contains all the correct information but includes unnecessary "fluff" or slight conversational filler that reduces precision. **Score 1 (Correct / Exact):** - The answer is accurate, precise, and confident. - For Yes/No questions: The polarity matches the Ground Truth perfectly. - For Open-ended questions: The answer contains **all** the core information and necessary details required by the Ground Truth without hallucinations. ### Input Data Question: {question} Ground Truth: {ground_truth} Assistant Answer: {model_output} ### Output Format Output strictly in the following JSON format: {"score": <0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, or 1>, "reasoning": "<short explanation>"} Table 6: Question distributions. Following common prac-tice, LoCoMo’s adversarial category is excluded because it rewards abstention rather than retrieval quality.                       

> Benchmark Category Count Mem-Gallery test-time learning (TTL) 337 (20 dialogues) visual-centric search (VS) 306 visual-centric reasoning (VR) 174 factual retrieval (FR) 219 multi-entity reasoning (MR) 206 answer refusal (AR) 184 temporal reasoning (TR) 123 knowledge resolution (KR) 81 conflict detection (CD) 81
> total 1,711
> LoCoMo single-hop 841 (10 conversations) multi-hop 282 temporal 321 open-domain 96
> adversarial (excluded) 446
> evaluated 1,540

# D Baseline Configurations and Dataset Statistics 

Protocols. We standardized the comparison as follows. Each baseline runs its original implementation with its rec-ommended default settings, and each system answers through its own pipeline and prompts, so the comparison is be-tween complete systems rather than retrieval modules grafted onto a shared backbone. Within a backbone setting, four things are held common: the questions; the answering LLM (gpt-4o-mini and the locally served Qwen2.5-VL-32B in the main results, Qwen2.5-VL-7B in Appendix E); the en-coders, where a system uses them, since M2A draws on the same sentence encoder, BM25, and SigLIP stack as V-Mem, which isolates the contribution of our routing and anchor-ing layer; and the judge, gpt-4o-mini under each bench-mark’s established judge prompt. Everything else is each sys-tem’s own: Omni is evaluated with its released caption-based Mem-Gallery adapter, faithful to its paper’s design, A-Mem runs its official note-construction pipeline, and M2A runs its agentic loop with raw images. 

Dataset statistics. Table 6 details both benchmarks’ ques-tion distributions. 

# E Smaller Backbone Model 

The main results use gpt-4o-mini and a Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone (Table 1). To test whether V-Mem’s advantage survives a weaker answer model, we also ran Mem-Gallery with a locally served Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct (AWQ), hold-ing the retrieval configuration and the gpt-4o-mini judge fixed. As in the 32B setting, each baseline’s memory is re-built with the backbone that will answer from it, because their construction calls the LLM; V-Mem’s build calls no LLM, so it reuses the same memory throughout. With the smaller backbone V-Mem no longer leads: Omni is ahead on the judge and on every lexical metric, and V-Table 7: Mem-Gallery with a local Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct (AWQ) backbone, same retrieval configuration and same 

gpt-4o-mini judge. Best per column in bold, second best underlined.                 

> System LLM-judge F1 BLEU EM Omni (SimpleMem) 0.534 0.387 0.141 0.223
> V-Mem (ours) 0.509 0.324 0.115 0.156 A-Mem 0.478 0.254 0.090 0.113

Table 8: Build and answer cost on Mem-Gallery under the Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone. Lower is better in every row, and the best is in bold.                          

> Phase Metric Omni M2A A-Mem V-Mem Build LLM tokens 2.97M 248.2M 6.01M 0
> Build wall-clock 19.9 h 219.9 h 21.8 h 120 s
> Answer tokens / QA 3,553 7,481 1,011 4,004 Answer seconds / QA 22.7 26.3 5.0 18.1

Mem falls to second. V-Mem reaches evidence by returning the memory content surrounding the top match, the matched round together with its neighbors, rather than a unit summa-rized at build time, so the backbone must locate the answer within that context. A capable backbone benefits from the surrounding content; a smaller one benefits less, and the ad-ditional context can instead act as noise that draws it away from the evidence. M2A was not run in this setting. Its mem-ory must be rebuilt for each backbone, and that rebuild al-ready took 219.9 hours under the locally served 32B model (Table 8); a third build on local hardware was beyond our compute budget. 

# F Cost under the 32B Backbone 

Table 8 reports build and answer cost for the Qwen2.5-VL-32B runs of Table 1. V-Mem’s build calls no LLM, so its build cost does not depend on the backbone at all; the base-lines run the backbone during construction, so theirs does. A-Mem is cheapest at answer time because it is text-only and never sends an image to the backbone, the same trade-off dis-cussed in §4.4. Token counts here are not comparable with those in §4.4, which uses gpt-4o-mini : the two back-bones tokenize text differently and charge different numbers of tokens for an image. 

# G Lexical Metrics 

Table 10 complements the LLM-judge results of §4.2 with lexical-overlap metrics (F1, BLEU, EM). On Mem-Gallery, V-Mem wins every lexical metric as well. On LoCoMo, Omni wins the lexical metrics while losing the judge. The reason is length: Omni emits long, gold-style answer strings that inflate 

n-gram overlap with the reference, whereas V-Mem answers tersely, and the judge, which scores semantic correctness, prefers V-Mem. V-Mem places third on these metrics, behind A-Mem as well. We therefore treat the LLM judge as the primary metric and report lexical scores for completeness. Table 9 breaks the lexical metrics down by category for both backbones. Under gpt-4o-mini the split is unusu-ally clean: V-Mem leads test-time learning, visual-centric reasoning, visual-centric search, answer refusal and conflict detection on all three metrics, while Omni leads multi-entity reasoning, factual retrieval and temporal reasoning on all three. Knowledge resolution is the only category that di-vides, with Omni ahead on F1 and BLEU and V-Mem on EM. Under the Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone the picture is less uniform: V-Mem leads F1 in six of the nine categories and overall, while Omni leads knowledge resolution and temporal reasoning and A-Mem leads multi-entity reasoning; BLEU follows the same pattern. The two metric families disagree most sharply on A-Mem’s visual-search row, whose lexical scores are zero on all three measures while the judge credits 

0.449 . A-Mem is text-only and cannot name a stored image by its identifier, so its answers share no surface form with references that are image ids, and the lexical metrics score them at zero whether or not the right picture was identified. The disagreement is therefore about answer format as much as about correctness, and is a reason to read the two metric families together. 

# H Additional Ablations 

Per-case lane toggles. Table 11 toggles one lane in each routing case of §3.3. A lane helps exactly when it car-ries discriminative signal for that case. For text →image, the query text is discriminative, so restricting ranking to image-bearing rounds lifts visual search by +0 .042 . For image+text →image, the query text is generic, so adding the text lane hurts by 0.24 : it injects topically related but visu-ally wrong images that displace the true image match under fusion; the image lane alone is best. For image+text →text, the query text alone cannot reach evidence whose wording comes from the attached image, so the anchor folds in the image’s keywords. Across all 468 of its questions this is close to a wash, +0 .004 , with 40 questions improving and 35 worsening. We adopt it on design grounds, because the query text alone cannot express what the image contributes, rather than on the strength of this margin. The coexistence of + and − rows across cases means no single uniform fu-sion can be right everywhere, which is precisely why V-Mem routes lanes and anchors by case. The filter window peaks at ±1 (0.826 / 0.849 / 0.828 for ±0/ ± 1/ ± 2), the local image-context radius. 

A budget-generous vanilla. In the incremental ablation of the main paper (its Table 3), the first two rungs return bare units while the later rungs return whole rounds, and each round holds several units. The early rungs therefore receive less text than the later ones, which raises a fair objection: perhaps the jump at the round rung is a budget effect rather than a crossing effect. Table 12 tests that by repeating the two unit-level rungs with three times as many units, matching the amount of content a round-level return delivers. Both rungs improve and routing still helps, but the conclusion is un-changed: even with the enlarged budget, the routed unit-level configuration trails the round-level rung by 0.062 overall and 

0.086 on provided-image questions. Returning more of the most relevant units does not substitute for returning the most relevant rounds. 

Neighbor placement. Once the top rounds have been cho-sen, their neighbors can be added to the context in several ways, and the choice turns out to matter more than one might expect. Table 13 compares four. Time-ordered runs , which is what V-Mem does (§3.3), places each top round together with its ±1 neighbors as one contiguous block in conversa-tion order, and merges blocks that overlap. Append at tail 

keeps the top rounds first and adds all the neighbors after them, so a round and its neighbors end up separated. No neighbors returns the top rounds alone. Interleave and trun-cate mixes the neighbors in among the top rounds and then cuts the list back to k entries. Time-ordered runs are best on average (0.810), ahead of appending at the tail (0.791) and of using no neighbors at all (0.749). Interleave-and-truncate is worst on every dataset (0.729), and its failure is the instructive one: truncating to 

k evicts top rounds to make room for neighbors, so it gives up recall without delivering the surrounding context it was trying to add. Neighbors must never count against the k

budget. Keeping each round contiguous matters most where an im-age and the text describing it need to stay together. Merging overlapping windows gains +0 .025 overall on Mem-Gallery, and the movement is concentrated in the multimodal cate-gories: visual-centric reasoning rises from 0.50 to 0.75 and provided-image questions from 0.79 to 0.86 . It is neutral on the text-only LoCoMo. 

Caption folding. Mem-Gallery supplies a caption with ev-ery shared image, and V-Mem can store it two ways: attached to the image alone, or additionally written into the text of the turn in which the image was shared, so that it is indexed like any other conversation text. The second is what we call 

folding , and it is what V-Mem does (§3.4). Folding improves the LLM judge from 0.780 to 0.800 (weighted, n=195 ) and never hurts a category. The gains sit where caption text gives the text lane something concrete to match: visual-centric reasoning +0 .083 , knowledge res-olution +0 .071 , temporal reasoning +0 .036 . Image-driven categories are unchanged, since image-to-image matching never consults caption text. Folding costs nothing at build time, because the caption is already supplied by the dataset and only has to be copied into the turn. 

The image encoder. V-Mem uses its image encoder almost entirely to match one image against another, which raises a natural question: is a contrastive image-text model the right tool for that, or would an encoder trained purely on im-ages do better? The two differ in what they were trained for. SigLIP learns to align an image with text describing it, so its embedding reflects what an image is about . DINOv2 is self-supervised on images alone and is built for visual similarity, so its embedding reflects what an image looks like .Table 14 swaps one for the other over the full benchmark, with both arms measured under the same configuration so the comparison is paired. The overall judge barely moves, 0.820 Table 9: Per-category lexical-overlap metrics on Mem-Gallery under both backbones. Within each block, the best score in each column is in bold. Two provenance notes for the gpt-4o-mini block: V-Mem’s lexical scores come from the run preceding the enriched anchor, whose overall judge score is 0.820 rather than the 0.825 of Table 1; and Omni’s lexical scores are computed over the 1,503 of 1,711 questions for which its stored reports carry lexical values, while its judge scores cover all 1,711 .

System TTL VR VS AR CD KR MR FR TR Overall 

gpt-4o-mini backbone, F1 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.099 0.236 0.691 0.008 0.068 0.290 0.508 0.568 0.542 0.356 M2A 0.141 0.049 0.000 0.067 0.036 0.121 0.240 0.149 0.109 0.105 A-Mem 0.084 0.210 0.003 0.007 0.057 0.194 0.475 0.418 0.125 0.171 

V-Mem (ours) 0.331 0.426 0.844 0.828 0.571 0.267 0.485 0.467 0.440 0.538 

gpt-4o-mini backbone, BLEU 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.046 0.062 0.227 0.001 0.008 0.078 0.241 0.234 0.237 0.134 M2A 0.022 0.006 0.000 0.005 0.005 0.012 0.039 0.027 0.019 0.016 A-Mem 0.017 0.048 0.001 0.001 0.008 0.041 0.220 0.149 0.054 0.060 

V-Mem (ours) 0.075 0.099 0.376 0.259 0.101 0.073 0.213 0.194 0.200 0.193 

gpt-4o-mini backbone, EM 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.022 0.161 0.589 0.000 0.016 0.058 0.055 0.214 0.366 0.188 M2A 0.000 0.011 0.000 0.000 0.012 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.001 A-Mem 0.000 0.149 0.003 0.000 0.025 0.000 0.015 0.027 0.008 0.023 

V-Mem (ours) 0.039 0.310 0.670 0.761 0.568 0.062 0.029 0.073 0.301 0.305 

Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone, F1 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.128 0.331 0.647 0.111 0.049 0.282 0.437 0.444 0.515 0.349 M2A 0.121 0.034 0.000 0.067 0.030 0.055 0.145 0.077 0.036 0.068 A-Mem 0.105 0.277 0.000 0.138 0.022 0.210 0.449 0.442 0.122 0.194 

V-Mem (ours) 0.258 0.540 0.837 0.273 0.398 0.277 0.363 0.477 0.465 0.455 

Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone, BLEU 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.054 0.076 0.228 0.007 0.008 0.079 0.173 0.147 0.225 0.120 M2A 0.015 0.005 0.000 0.004 0.004 0.004 0.014 0.009 0.007 0.008 A-Mem 0.029 0.059 0.000 0.008 0.003 0.045 0.188 0.163 0.037 0.061 

V-Mem (ours) 0.078 0.116 0.390 0.068 0.070 0.078 0.119 0.195 0.185 0.164 

Qwen2.5-VL-32B backbone, EM 

Omni (SimpleMem) 0.065 0.259 0.529 0.000 0.037 0.086 0.034 0.128 0.398 0.189 M2A 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.012 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.001 A-Mem 0.015 0.218 0.000 0.000 0.012 0.025 0.029 0.155 0.016 0.051 

V-Mem (ours) 0.134 0.460 0.722 0.033 0.395 0.099 0.024 0.178 0.374 0.282 

Table 10: Lexical-overlap metrics on both benchmarks (Lo-CoMo excludes the adversarial category, n=1 ,540 ). V-Mem wins every lexical metric on Mem-Gallery. On LoCoMo they favor Omni instead, because word overlap rewards length and phrasing regardless of correctness. Best per column in bold, second best underlined. 

Mem-Gallery LoCoMo 

System F1 BLEU EM F1 BLEU EM Omni (SimpleMem) 0.356 0.134 0.188 0.427 0.147 0.183 

M2A 0.105 0.016 0.001 0.141 0.022 0.000 A-Mem 0.171 0.060 0.023 0.311 0.097 0.088 

V-Mem (ours) 0.538 0.193 0.305 0.210 0.051 0.006 

to 0.817 , and the per-category pattern follows those training objectives: DINOv2 is slightly better at recognizing the same object again (test-time learning, visual-centric reasoning), while SigLIP is better when the query describes what to look for (visual-centric search, +0 .029 ). The two effects cancel. A purpose-built image encoder therefore does not improve image-to-image matching at this scale, so we keep SigLIP, which has the further advantage of matching the encoder stack the baselines use. Table 11: Routing is forced, not arbitrary. Each row toggles one lane in one routing case. A lane helps only when it can contribute something the case needs. For text →image, a round holding no image cannot return one, so restricting the search to image-bearing rounds removes candidates that could never answer. For image+text →image, the query’s own image already carries the search signal, so the text lane adds nothing the image does not have and instead pulls in rounds matched on words, whose images are the wrong ones; enabling it costs −0.24 , and the image lane alone is best. For image+text →text, the evidence resembles neither the query text nor the query image alone, so the anchor has to combine them, and adding the image’s keywords gives a small gain. A single uniform fusion cannot satisfy both the + and − rows, hence routing.                     

> Case (query →target) Lane ablated off on ∆
> text →image (VS) image-round filter 0.807 0.849 +0 .042
> text →image (VS) hypo-caption 0.842 0.849 +0 .007
> image+text →image (VS) text lane (backbone) 0.580 0.341 −0.239
> image+text →text image keywords in the anchor 0.825 0.829 +0 .004

Table 12: The two unit-level rungs given three times as many units (Mem-Gallery, LLM judge, n=1 ,711 ; compare the first two rows of the main paper’s Table 3). Even with the larger budget, the routed unit-level configuration trails the round-level rung by 0.062 overall. Returning more units does not substitute for returning whole rounds.       

> Configuration TTL VR VS Overall Vanilla, threefold unit budget 0.835 0.420 0.681 0.745 + routing 0.804 0.425 0.714 0.756

Table 13: How neighbor rounds enter the result matters. Re-turning each top round as a contiguous, time-ordered run with its ±1 neighbors (ours) beats, on average, appending neighbors at the tail and beats using no neighbors. The naive “interleave then truncate to top-k” is worst on every dataset: it evicts top rounds to make room for neighbors, losing recall without giving the surrounding context it was adding them for. Neighbors must never count against the top-k budget.                     

> Neighbor placement AI-Rob. Acad. Fash. avg time-ordered runs (ours) 0.754 0.831 0.844 0.810
> append at tail 0.772 0.773 0.828 0.791 no neighbors ( ±0)0.728 0.714 0.803 0.749 interleave + truncate 0.684 0.708 0.795 0.729

Table 14: A contrastive image encoder is adequate for image-to-image matching. Swapping SigLIP (trained to align im-ages with text) for DINOv2 (self-supervised on images alone) over the full benchmark leaves the overall judge unchanged (−0.003 , within noise). DINOv2 is slightly better at recog-nizing the same object again (TTL, VR) while SigLIP is better at finding an image from a description (VS, +0 .029 ), and the two cancel. Only image-to-image cases are affected; text categories are unchanged by construction. Both arms were measured on the configuration preceding the enriched anchor, so the SigLIP column reads 0.820 overall rather than the 0.825 of Table 1.                

> Category SigLIP DINOv2 ∆
> TTL (instance) 0.874 0.875 +0 .002
> VR (visual reason.) 0.569 0.578 +0 .009
> VS (visual search) 0.827 0.797 −0.029
> Overall judge 0.820 0.817 −0.003

# I Statistical Significance 

Every score in this paper is a mean over per-question LLM-judge outcomes, and all systems answer the same questions, so system differences are paired. We quantify them two ways, both computed from the stored judge outputs without re-running any system. First, a paired bootstrap over questions: the question set is resampled with replacement 10 ,000 times, each system’s mean is recomputed on each resample, and the 

2.5 and 97 .5 percentiles of the resampled difference give a 

95% confidence interval. Second, a two-sided sign-flip per-mutation test on the paired per-question differences ( 10 ,000 

permutations), which makes no parametric assumption about the score distribution. On Mem-Gallery V-Mem’s overall score is 0.825 with a 95% interval of [0 .808 , 0.841] ; on Lo-CoMo it is 0.690 with [0 .672 , 0.710] .Table 15: Paired bootstrap and sign-flip permutation tests on the per-question judge scores ( 10 ,000 resamples each). ∆ is the paired mean difference, the interval is its 95% bootstrap confidence interval, and p is two-sided from the permutation test. In the ablation block each row compares a rung with the rung immediately above it.                                                         

> Comparison ∆95% CI p
> Mem-Gallery (n= 1 ,711 )V-Mem vs. Omni +0 .263 [+0 .240 ,+0 .286] <10 −4
> V-Mem vs. A-Mem +0 .365 [+0 .342 ,+0 .388] <10 −4
> V-Mem vs. M2A +0 .511 [+0 .488 ,+0 .534] <10 −4
> LoCoMo (n= 1 ,540 )V-Mem vs. Omni +0 .108 [+0 .086 ,+0 .129] <10 −4
> V-Mem vs. A-Mem +0 .179 [+0 .157 ,+0 .200] <10 −4
> V-Mem vs. M2A +0 .269 [+0 .245 ,+0 .293] <10 −4
> Incremental ablation (Mem-Gallery, n= 1 ,711 )
> +routing +0 .009 [−0.003 ,+0 .021] 0.16 +shared rounds +0 .129 [+0 .111 ,+0 .148] <10 −4
> +generated anchor +0 .007 [−0.002 ,+0 .015] 0.14

Table 15 reports the results. Every margin over every base-line, on both benchmarks, is significant well beyond the con-ventional threshold, and the smallest of them, +0 .108 over Omni on LoCoMo, has a confidence interval whose lower bound still sits at +0 .086 .The ablation ladder is a different matter, and we state it plainly: only one of its three steps is significant on the overall score. Matching through shared rounds gains +0 .129 

at p < 10 −4, while routing ( +0 .009 , p = 0 .16 ) and the generated anchor ( +0 .007 , p = 0 .14 ) both have intervals that include zero. Neither step is defended here on its overall margin. Routing is justified by the per-case lane toggles of Table 11, where a single lane swings a case by −0.24 , and the generated anchor by the per-category gains it produces where it fires ( +0 .038 VR, +0 .032 VS). Overall means average those effects away against the categories a step does not touch. 

# J Algorithm and Reproducibility 

The retrieval procedure. Algorithm 1 states routed re-trieval in full. Its shape is the same in every case: the case is read from the query alone, that case fixes two things, which units are searchable ( U) and what each active lane searches with (the anchors A), and everything after those two choices is common. The four branches differ only in those choices. For image+text →image the searchable set is the stored images and the sole anchor is the query image, so no text lane runs at all. For text →image the search is confined to image-bearing rounds, the text lane keeps the query, and the image lane is anchored on the generated caption ˆc. For image+text →text a vision model extracts relevant keywords ˆw from the query image, the text anchor becomes the query text with those keywords appended, and the image lane runs alongside it. For text →text the text lane searches all units with the raw query. What follows is shared. Each active lane scores every can-didate unit against its own anchor, the lanes are fused by re-ciprocal rank, each round takes the score of its best-matching unit, and the top k rounds are returned together with their 

±W neighbors, merged into time-ordered blocks. Aggrega-tion questions are the one exception: they drop the neighbors and widen k instead. The update operator of Eq. (1) is the zero-LLM construction of §3.4. 

Reproducibility checklist. We summarize the elements needed to reproduce our results; the configuration is fixed across all experiments (§4.1, Appendix B). 

• Datasets. Mem-Gallery (Bei et al. 2026) ( 1,711 ques-tions, 20 dialogues) and LoCoMo (Maharana et al. 2024) (1,540 evaluated questions, 10 conversations); both are public. Full category counts are in Table 6. 

• Models and encoders. Text ϕ: all-MiniLM-L6-v2 

(384-d); image ψ: SigLIP2-base-patch16-384 (768-d); sparse: BM25; all run locally, off the shelf, with no fine-tuning. Within each backbone setting one model at tem-perature 0 serves both the anchor-generation and answer roles, gpt-4o-mini or the local Qwen2.5-VL model, while the judge is always gpt-4o-mini ; construction calls no LLM. 

• Hyperparameters. All values are fixed across every ex-periment and listed in Table 5, with no per-dataset tuning. The one dataset-dependent element is the aggregation Algorithm 1: V-Mem Routed Retrieval. Routing fixes what to search over (U), what to search with (anchors A), and what to return (Π). 

Require: query q = ( qtxt , q img ); encoders ϕ, ψ ; RRF con-stant κ; round budget k; neighbor window W 

> 1:

c ← Route( q), the case (m(q), m (u⋆)) inferred from the query alone  

> 2:

if c = img +txt → img then  

> 3:

U ← images; A ← { image lane ψ : qimg } 

> 4:

else if c = txt → img then  

> 5:

ˆc ← LLM( qtxt ); U ← image-bearing rounds  

> 6:

A ← { text lane : qtxt ; image lane (caption) : ˆ c} 

> 7:

else if c = img +txt → txt then  

> 8:

ˆw ← LLM( qtxt , q img ) (relevant keywords extracted from the query image)  

> 9:

U ← all units; A ← {image lane ψ :

qimg ; text lane : qtxt ∥ ˆw} 

> 10:

else  

> 11:

U ← all units; A ← { text lane : qtxt } (c = txt →

txt ) 

> 12:

end if  

> 13:

for each lane ℓ with anchor a ∈ A: score u ∈ U by 

sℓ(a, u ); fuse lanes by RRF (κ) 

> 14:

score( r) ← max u∈r fused( u); R ← top-k rounds  

> 15:

return Π( R): each round with its ±W neighbors, merged and time-ordered (aggregation: drop neighbors, widen k)branch of Appendix B, which fires only on LoCoMo, is triggered by the query’s wording, and was not tuned against results. The rank-fusion constant κ=60 is the standard RRF default, and the candidate pool ( 20 ) and returned rounds ( k=12 ) are conventional retrieval bud-gets, held fixed as controlled variables rather than tuned. The neighbor window ( ±1) was chosen against the alter-natives in Table 13. 

• Evaluation. Primary metric is an LLM-as-judge score from gpt-4o-mini under each benchmark’s estab-lished prompt (Mem-Gallery’s official prompt; Lo-CoMo’s from (Jiang et al. 2026a)); lexical F1/BLEU/EM are secondary (Appendix G). Every question is evalu-ated once; the answer LLM and judge run at temperature 

0. Differences between systems are tested with a paired bootstrap and a sign-flip permutation test over questions (Appendix I). 

• Baselines. Each baseline uses its original implementa-tion and recommended settings, with the shared answer LLM, encoders (where applicable), and judge described in Appendix D. 

• Prompts. All V-Mem prompts are reproduced verbatim in Appendix C. 

• Code and compute. All code, prompts, and configuration files will be released publicly. Two machines are used. A workstation with a 24-core Intel i9-13900, 128 GB RAM, and one NVIDIA RTX A2000 (12 GB) runs the encoders 

ϕ and ψ, the memory build, and the Qwen2.5-VL-7B backbone of Appendix E. A server with two NVIDIA RTX A5000 (24 GB each), a 20-core Intel Xeon Silver 4210R, and 628 GB RAM under Ubuntu 20.04 and CUDA 12.2 serves Qwen2.5-VL-32B, quantized to Q4_K_M, sharded across both GPUs under Ollama with a 40 ,960 -token context and the model held resident between calls. 

gpt-4o-mini is reached through a hosted API. The build costs in Table 4 are wall-clock on the workstation; those in Table 8 are wall-clock for the same pipelines driven against the server-hosted 32B model. The per-question answer times include API latency. 

# K Case Study 

Table 16 traces one real Mem-Gallery question per mecha-nism, comparing the full system against the same system with that mechanism disabled (the corresponding rung of the in-cremental ablation, §4.3). The three cases mirror Figure 1 with benchmark data. 

Case 1, matching through shared rounds. The query image finds the right stored photo, but the exchange carrying that photo says only that it is being shared; the catalog category is named one exchange earlier. Unit-level retrieval returns the matched image bare and the backbone answers from an unrelated product unit; round-level return with neighbors carries the naming exchange into context. 

Case 2, hypo-caption. The query’s only content word (“friends”) appears in no stored caption, so the raw anchor retrieves nothing and the system abstains. The drafted cap-tion describes the target scene in caption vocabulary, and the correct image wins. 

Case 3, enriched anchor. The question asks which en-trepreneur was discussed alongside the attached picture, and names nobody. The picture shows a Tesla, and names nobody either. The evidence therefore resembles neither part alone, and searching with the query text returns an image id where a person’s name was wanted. The vision model reads the terms visible in the picture, Tesla among them, and append-ing those to the question reaches the turn that discusses Elon Musk. 

# L Error Analysis: Provided-Image Questions 

The remaining errors on provided-image questions are not retrieval failures: the evidence is there and the answer is still wrong. We audited the provided-image misses of the round-level configuration: in all 21, the returned context contained the conversation text naming the answer, and the answer model did not use it. The pattern is consistent. The answer call is text-only, so what the model sees is the attached-image note describing the picture (Appendix C) alongside a con-versation that explicitly identifies what it depicts. It follows the description and overrides the conversation, answering 

“Blue Mosque” where the conversation says Hagia Sophia, or “Cocker Spaniel” where it says Brittany Spaniel. Prompting did not fix it. Instructing the model to treat that description as a guess from pixels recovered almost none of the misses while breaking many answers that had been cor-rect, taking the provided-image judge from 0.895 to 0.745 

across the 468 questions of this case. The same confidently Table 16: Case study: one real benchmark question per mechanism. Each row shows what the system answers with the mechanism disabled and with it enabled. Questions and correct answers are quoted from Mem-Gallery. 

Question and correct answer Without the mechanism With the mechanism “According to the conversation, what cate-gory is the clothing in the picture?”, with a photo attached. 

Correct: Collared Luxe Faux Fur Jacket 

Returning bare units: 

“Cowl Neck Fisherman Sweaters” 

Returning whole rounds: 

“The clothing in the picture is categorized as a ‘Collared Luxe Faux Fur Jacket.’ ” “Which picture shown in the conversation is about friends?” 

Correct: D12:IMG_002 

Searching with the query: 

“Information not found” 

Searching with a hypo-caption: 

“D12:IMG_002” “When Alex was talking about which en-trepreneur did he share an image related to this picture?”, with a photo of a Tesla. 

Correct: Elon Musk 

Searching with the query: 

“The image related to the entrepreneur discussed by Alex is D1:IMG_002.” 

Searching with an enriched anchor: 

“Alex shared an image related to Elon Musk, specifically about Tesla. . . ” 

asserted description that causes these errors is also the main route to the answers the model already gets right, because it frequently names the answer entity outright, so suppress-ing it costs more than it saves. We therefore report this as a limitation of the answer model rather than patch around it. Reconciling the attached-image description with the re-trieved statements is future work.